THE INFALLIBLE TRUE AND ASSV∣RED WITCH: OR, THE SECOND EDITION, OF THE TRIAL OF WITCH-CRAFT.

SHOWING THE RIGHT AND TRUE METHOD OF THE DISCOVERY: WITH A CONFVTATION OF ERRONEOVS WAYS, CARE∣FVLLY REVIEWED AND more fully cleared and Augmented.

By IOHN COTTA, Doctor in Physic.

LONDON, Printed by I. L. for R. H. and are to be sold at the sign of the Grey-hound in Pals Church-yard. 1625.


The Printer to the Reader.
THE Author perceiving his former Tra∣ctate or first edition thereof, either not diligently read, or not truly by many men understood, he hath now by a se∣cond edition thereof offered more ease and light unto such as are willing to search after truth, both by the addition of many things before omitted, as also by this plain direction unto all the most special points in the whole Treatise, as foal∣loweth,


The contents of the first Chapter.
1. How Knowledge doth come unto man.
2. How mans Knowledge is confined and limited.

CHAP. II.
1. That many things are hidden from the Knowledge of all men indifferently by the decree of God and Nature.
2. That many things are revealed unto the industrious learned, which are hidden from the slothful and unlearned.

CHAP. III.
That Witchcraft cannot bee discovered or known, but by the common ways and means of all other Knowledge and discovery.


CHAP. IIII.
1. The Knowledge and power of Spirits, how exceeding the Knowledge and power of man.
2. Good Spirits and evil Spirits how discerned.

CHAP. V.
That the devil doth and can work alone without the association of a Witch.


CHAP. VI.
1. The Devil associating with a Witch.
2. A Witch apparently discovered by the Conduct of the out∣ward sense, and testimony thereof.
3. That the Devil plays the Juggler in many things, seeming to raise the dead, to transform into Cats or Dogs or o∣there Creatures, to present the same body in two distant places at the same time.
4. The difference between things merely imagined or fancied, and things really offered unto the outward sense truly dis∣cerned.
5. That which is supernatural or spiritual, may be discovered by the outward sense.
6. How the counterfeit miracles of the devil may be discerned from the true miracles of God.

CHAP. VII.
1. An assured Witch by evidence of reason convinced.
2. All Spirits that are enquired at, are Devils.
3. Witches may be detected by professedly undertaking, and up∣on promise or covenant performing revelations and disco∣ueries above the power and knowledge of man.
4. All men in whom the Devil doth exercise supernatural works or miracles, or by whom he doth utter supernatu∣rall revelations, are not simply therefore by necessary con∣sequent of reason to be esteemed. Witches but with some few considerations which therewith conjoined and dewly weighed may infallibly prove their guilt thus: He that undertakes revelations or works which are truly found supernatural, and cannot either prove them to be of God, nor to be imposture, nor to be imposed upon him by the Di∣uell without his will, allowance, and liking thereof, that man by certain Demonstration is a Witch or Sorcerer. What Witchcraft is, manifestly described.

CHAP. VIII.
1. The divers kinds and manners wherein Witches receive knowledge from spirits, as Astrologers, as Wizards, as Physicians.


That the Devil can both inflict diseases, and cure where God permits.

CHAP. IX.
That since Impostors doe counterfeit Witches, and under colour of imposture, Witches may hide their discovery, it is fit that dili∣gently the Magistrate inquire into Impostors.


CHAP. X.
1. Whether the diseased are bewitched, when and how it is cer∣tainely to be known, when not, and when men ought to rest sa∣tisfied in desiring satisfaction therein.
2. The marks of Witches vulgarly reported, and by oath deposed to be found in their bodies, how to be tried and known from all natural diseases, among which many are very like unto them.
3. The necessity of consulting with the Physician not only therein, but in all diseases supposed to be inflicted by the Devil.
4. How far the vulgarly esteemed confession of a supposed Witch is of validity to prove her a Witch.

CHAP. XI.
That Witches may be produced unto the bar of Justice two ways, first for manifest works of Sorcery witnessed by the sense: secondly, for revelations above the possibility and power of man.


CHAP. XII.
1. Presumption and probabilities against suspected Witches.
2. That Witchcraft is a sin or crime which ought to be detected by testimony and by manifestation thereof to sense or reason.

CHAP. XIII.
That men ought not to seek the discovery of Witches by vnwarran∣ted means void of reason, or superstitious.


CHAP. XIV.
Casting Witches into the water, scratching, beating, whether any al∣lowed trial of a Witch.


CHAP. XV.
1. That revelations by the bewitched in their sits or trances are no sufficient proof against a Witch.
2. That the declaration by the bewitched of secret marks in the bodies of suspected Witches are not iustifiable to be admitted as any true or allowable conuictions.
3. That the healing of the bewitched by the compelled touch or
action of the supposed Witch is no reasonable accusation against any man, as therefore a Witch.
4. That there is no more necessity of a miraculous detection of Witchcraft, then of any other as hideous and abominable sin.
5. That the miracles and detections of crying and hideous sins by visions and apparitions cannot certainly or assuredly be ma∣nifested to be of God, and therefore simply in themselves, though revealing truth they are not to be trusted or credited alone, but so far forth as they doe point unto, or occasion just and reason∣noble inquisition.
The conclusion of the whole Treatise inferring the two sorts of ma∣nifest Witches generally thorough the whole work intended and by Demonstration made evident, to be the same, against whom the Law of God was directed, as also that there is no other trial of those Witches, but the means and ways in this Trea∣tise before mentioned.




TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE, SIR IAMES LEY KNIGHT and BARONET, Lord chief Justice of ENGLAND, and to the rest of the Honourable, Right Reave∣rend and worthy Judges.
RIGHT Honourable Lords; I formerly Dedicated a small Treatise unto the Honourable Society of the reverend Judges, who then filled the awful seats of Law and Justice. I aduen∣ture the second time to present it, reviewed, augmented, and cleared from some part of that darkness which happily hath hitherto clouded it from bright acceptance. Information tending unto truths discovery, though from the meanest wit or person unto your Lordships, cannot be unacceptable, whom Law doth make the Sentensers of Truth, which is the Soul and Sentence of the Law. The matter and subject propounded is not trifling or un∣worthy, nor can be any disdain unto Noble great∣ness;



nor is unto any Honourable order more pro∣per then to your Lordships. Indeed the difficulty of the matter presses a studious consideration, an orderly continual linking and holding together of all material circumstances unto the maine scope, a faith∣full and strong memory, quickness of apprehension and solide judgment, but in the end unto such as are industrious and desirous of Truth, will yield a de∣lightfull and thanke-worthy compensation thereof. I presume not to direct or prescribe, nor doe purposely oppose any other different opinion, but inoffensiuely tender my own unto the public good, and having merely devoted it unto truth; doe humbly submit it unto your Lordships, the vowed Patrons of right and truth:
Your Lordships in all humble duty and desire, IOHN COTTA.




TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE Sr. EDVVARD COKE Knight, Lord chief Justice of ENGLAND, one of the Lords of His Majesties most Honourable Privy Council, and to the rest of the Honourable right Reverend and worthy Judges.
RIght Honourable Lords, where according unto the direction of good laws, gracious So∣ueraignes nobly rule, and loyal Subjects freely obey, there the Commonwealth, which is the common good of both, produces the most royal, happy and sty∣ble Monarchy. If ever any Kingdom hath been fortunate, to give a true mirror and example of this happiness, this famous Island hath been therein incomparable, wherein so many puissant Monarchs, successively swaying this Imperial Diadem, ac∣cording unto the ancient Laws and Customs of



this Nation, have so many hundreds of years go∣uerned this mighty people in peace and honour at home, and victoriously led them in triumphant war abroad, as by the glorious trump of foreign and domestic fame and History is not obscure. The splendour of this truth, the injurious aspersion of insufficiency in our English laws, cannot with∣out shame or blushing guilt behold. Notwithstan∣ding, since in some few things to bee wanting, was never as yet wanting in the most exquisite laws, Policy and State that ever hath been, and since the Law of God it self (though perfect in it self) through humane imperfection in the true perfection was never yet seen, give me leave through all laws and Countries in one particular to wonder at their general defect. What Law or Nation in the detection of Witches, and Witch∣craft, hath as yet ever appeared competent, or from just exception exempt? How uncertain are a∣mong all people differing judgements? Some judge no Witches at all, others more then too many, o∣theirs too few by many, in so opposite extremes, so extremely opposite: I doe not presume to pre∣scribe how a law may become more absolute or perfect, I only labour & enquire to learn. Among many general directions by different Authors, di∣uersly published, concerning the perfecting of par∣ticular laws, (as far as perfection is possible unto humane frailty) Demosthenes in his second Oration against Aristogiton, in my thought doth seem to equal (if not exceed) the most exquisite. Three


things saith he (as may be plainly out of the fore∣named place collected) doe concur unto the up∣right constitution of every complete law, whereby it may be held sacred and inviolate. The first is, that it be 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, that it be the ordi∣nonce and gift of God. Secondly, that it be 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, the sage and judicious decree and counsel of the most wise and prudent. The third is, that it be 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, the universal consent of the whole state, City or country. Cer∣tainly, the true cause of the forementioned general lameness, and confusion of Laws in the proposed case of Witch-craft consists herein. First, for that men have not as yet sufficiently searched the holy Scriptures to find out that 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, what is the ordinance of God therein. Secondly, for that men have not seriously consulted with that wisdom and prudence, which by the light of nature and reason Almighty God hath left disco∣uerable and allowed to be justly and truly deemed, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 that is, the sage counsel, determi∣nation and decree of the most judicious, prudent and wise men.
When these two are met and are agreed; name∣lie, the ordinance of God, and the upright and sin∣cere counsel of the most holy, prudent and wise men, purposely studied, and without superstition exercised therein: then will the happy harmony of all men's hearts become easily tunable thereto, which is, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, that is, the common consent of Prince, People, and Country. Unto this fair



work and building of God: let it not seem pre∣sumption, that I offer this my Moiety of desire, and good will. I know that in this subject, many ages of learned Authors, have endlessly varied, many famous Writers have bin branded with infamous errors, many excellent wits have run themselves al∣most out of their wits, & those who have best deser∣ued, their trembling pens have niggardly dropped, & timorously pointed out any fully, or firmly auou¦ched certainty. It is notwithstanding no breach of rule of modesty, but my bounden duty, unto the accomplishment and honour of truth, to add what∣soever in my utmost endeavour may be conducible. Neither would my many conflicts, with difficulties in this kind, hold me excused, is so oft spurred, or rather galled, by so frequent exercise, practise and conversation, with persons in so divers extraordi∣nary manners afflicted, and supposed bewitched, it should awake no answerable dispatch or display therein. Let it then seem no wonder, that a man (though less then the least among men) who hath not only as studiously as others laboured the same particular, and as diligently therein observed, but hath far more happily bin fortunate then others, with frequent matter, and occurrents worthy obser∣uation, and hath also been more plentifully grati∣fied with opportunity, to enrich his understanding with variety and worth of objects, instructing his reason, and confirming his experience: Let it seem no wonder (I say) that a mean wit, thus beyond others furnished thereto, may adventure amidst


so many doubts and ambiguities, wherewith so ma∣ny worthies have been formerly entangled and per∣plexed, to avouch and prove certainty, and de∣monstration. In this subject of Witch-craft, by better means advantaged, if beyond former times or Writers, I have happily proposed a more direct and certain Module and Method of judging therein, I doe not thereby arrogate unto my self, but attribute unto the means, nor derogate from others, whom if the like contingency of the same helps, had as freely and friendly affronted, and the like facility had opened as ready access, I acknow∣ledge in the guilty sense of my own exiguitie (whether in the outward beauty of words, or in∣ward substance of understanding) it had been easy for any man to exceed with so good means this so evil meandness of my performance. Since then (Right Honourable Lords) the subject it self, and a pertinent and peculiar use therein, doe point unto your Honours the property of this Dedication, unto whose tribunal the Laws of God and men appeal against that foul abominable sin, let it not be censured pride or presumption, humbly to present unto your Lordship that consideration and resolution which beyond my merit or desert, Oc∣currents have freely administered unto long-distra∣cted meditation. If there may appear therein ought advancing truth, or serviceable unto the Commonwealth, vouchsafe for those good re∣spects, it may be gracious in your eyes, acceptable and worthy your noble favours and protection,
View Image - 


against the injuries of adverse obdurate custom, ignorance, envy, and the vulgar indignation of common received and deceived opinion. In the mean season, my devoted heart shall devoutly pray unto Almighty God for your Lordships long life, the multiplication of many happy days, re∣doubled honour in your service of God, your King and Country, and after this life, that life which ever lasts.
Your Lordships, in the most humble desire, and tender of his devotions service and observance, IOHN COTTA.




To the Reader.
INgenious Reader, in this subject of Witch-craft which I here present unto thee, thou art not ignorant, what obe∣scuritie, difficulty, difference, country∣rietie and contradiction hath among Authors and learned men in all ages arisen. From the offusion of general ignorance, or superstitious blindness herein, willing to withdraw the vulgar illusion; I have endeavoured De∣monstratiuely to declare what portion of some more cer∣tainty in such uncertainties, God & Nature hath destined and allowed. It is not any worth either arrogated unto my self, or derogated from others, but my studious desire and vehement affection in this particular, together with some special experience and pains upon divers occurrents, and occasions extraordinarily happening, that hath drawn me forth to offer my opinion as the widows mite, more hap∣lie in good will, and hearty affection, then in true value or deserved esteem. If it may only give occasion unto a more exquisite pencil, it is the height of my intention, and a complete recompense of my endeavour. For this cause, and for common easy reading and apprehension, I have purposely avoided, and discontinued the smooth third of a continued laboured stile, and have for the most part pre∣ferred and inserted a plain texture, of a more vulgar and careless phrase and word. The envious happily may cavil,

View Image - 


that a Physician out of his own supposed precincts, should rush into sacred lists, or enter upon so high points of Di∣uinitie, as by an unavoidable intercurrence, doe necessary∣lie insert themselves in this proposed subject. Divinity it self doth herein answer them. In the theory of Theolo∣gie, it is the duty and praise of every man, to be without curiosity fruitfully exercised.
For as touching matter of Divinity, as it falls out, or is incident in the discourse of this small Treatise, I only propound such reasons and considerations therein, as in common are allowable and commendable in every Christi∣an man, and therein I doe neither vsurpingly control others, nor controulingly conclude my self, but willingly submit unto the grave censure and dictature of the lear∣ned and reverend Divine. If therefore (good Reader,) I have here published or communicated unto thee ought thankes-worthy, as it is by me freely intended unto thee; so let it not from me be unfriendly extended by thee. If I have in ought erred, let it be thy praise and goodness to make thy use thereof without abuse. If thou hast former∣lie thought amiss, and doest here read that is more right, be not ashamed to acknowledge thy better knowledge. If thou list not to know, then know, that truth shall judge thee, and justify her self without thee.

Thy well-willing friend. IOHN COTTA.




THE TRIAL OF WITCH∣CRAFT: Showing, the true and right Me∣thode of the Discovery.

CHAP. I. Of natural knowledge, and how it is solely acquired, either by Sense, or Reason, or by artificial and prudent coniectation.
AS there is one only Infinite, which hath created all things finite: so is there one only finite, most nearly like unto that Infinite, which is wisdom and know∣ledge in men & Angels. The knowledge which is given to Angels, is only known to God & Angels. The knowledge which is given to man, is known by man, limited, measured and confined. It is therefore by the most wise Philosophers and fathers of former times, & the Sages of later times and ages agreed, by a general consent & harmony of the same truth, that all things which are allotted man to know or under∣stand, are by two ways, or instruments solely to be achieved or hoped. The first of these is the inward understanding:[1] the second is the outward sense. The understanding hath know∣ledge divers ways. First immediately, by an inbred Idea & un¦derstanding of certain general notions common unto all



men, and in them, and with them borne. This, though in∣tellectuall, may bee in some sort assimilated unto that na∣turall instinct in bruit creatures; by which, when they come first into the world, yet immediately by the direction of Nature, they refuse, and fly from that which is evil and harmful, and seek and know that which is needful un∣to their life and preservation. Secondly, the vnderstan∣ding hath knowledge by ratiociation, by the discourse and use of reason. By this ratiocination, we doe in many things gain a [b] certainty of knowledge; in other some a probe∣bility and likelihood only of certainty, yet oft-times in a very great nearness [c] and affinity with certainty. Knowledge likewise comes by the outward senses, which doe certainly and undoubtedly inform the under∣standing concerning their several proper objects, where the faculty is sound, and the instruments of sense, and the outward means of conveyance are rightly disposed.
Among these five senses, the sight and hearing, the eye and ear, are the most excellent and chief ways of multi∣plication and increase of natural knowledge. Besides these ways of knowledge; namely, the inward and the outward sense, there never was, nor ever can be enumeration of any other. For this cause the Philosophers have divided all things that are incident unto mankind, to know or under∣stand; either unto such things as immediately [d] in their very first thought or mention do prove themselves, & at the first consideration or sight are evident unto all men; or such as are directly inferred and necessarily proved by other pro∣positions, or such as by prudent guess only and likely con∣gesture give a fair probability of truth and certainty. Such things as immediately prove themselves, and are undoubted, in their first view, are subject either to the sense only, or un∣to the understanding only. Such things as are only proper to the sense, and thereto immediately and properly subject, are things seen, heard, touched, tasted, smelt; as colours, fi∣gures, lineaments, sounds, music, hardness, softness, dryness, moisture, roughness, smoothness, sour, sweet, diversity of



odours and the like: in which, without the use of the five sen∣ses, men cannot be sensible or know any thing in this infer∣our world under the heavens. Such things as are subject un∣to the understanding only, and not unto the sense, and im∣mediatly prove themselves, are general notions and recep∣tions, inseparably fixed in the understanding of all men. Of this kind are these positions in Philosophy. All things that are made, have their matter, [a] out of which they were made, have their special forms and difference, by which they are a part that they are: and lastly to that being, which they are, are risen from that which they were not. Likewise, these po∣sitions in Logic: Every proposition is true or false, offer∣motive or negative, and extends generally unto all under the same kind, or to some particulars, or to a singular, or is indefinite. Likewise, in Arithmetic these: One is no number∣ber, one cannot be divided, or is indiuisible; four is more then two. Likewise, in Physique these: Every man is sick or healthful, or a neuter: Contraries are cured by contraries, as heat by cooling, cold by heating, moisture by drying, dryness by moysting. As in these named Sciences, so in all other; there are the like general notions, immediately at the first view proving themselves unto the understanding, and every man in common sense and reason, immediately cousin∣teeth unto their truth; and he that denies it, or seeks proof thereof, is esteemed justly mad, or void of reason.
There are other things also subject unto the vnderstan∣ding only, which do not immediately upon the first view or consideration (as the former) prove themselves, but are pro∣ued by others more clear and evident then themselves; as this proposition. The motion of the heavens is not infinite. This is not manifest unto every man at first view, but requi∣reth another more manifest then it self, to make it manifest thus: That which hath a certain limited course, circum∣uolution and motion, cannot be infinite; but Astronomy for many thousands of years hath discovered the courses, peri∣odds, revolutions, and set perambulations of the heavens, and therefore the motions of the heavens cannot be infinite. It



may here easily be observed, how the first position being un∣able to prove it self, another more manifest doth give it light, and doth deduce it unto that, which doth so immedi∣italy prove it self unto common sense, and reason, and obe∣seruation of all ages and times, that no idiot can be ignorant, or will deny it.
Thus hath bin manifested, how some things are immediate∣lie understood in the very first consideration & view: some are proved by themselves, some not proved by themselves, but made evident by others. As many things are in the for∣mer kinds & several manners manifested, and evidently pro∣ued unto reason, sense, or understanding: so are there many things neither by themselves nor by other evident, neither to the understanding and reason, or to the outward sense at the first apparent, but remain ambiguous and doubtful. In these things certainty of knowledge by manifest proof fai∣ling, there remains no other refuge, but prudent and artifi∣cial conjecture, narrowly looking & searching thorough pro∣babilities, unto the nearest possibility of truth & certainty.

Some hence doe arise excellent uses and benefits unto un∣derstanding, though not so far forth ofttimes gained, as is desired unto all private ends, yet so far forth, as makes wise and understanding men excel and shine before others. Hence it comes to posse that in doubtful cases, counsels and attempts, one man is seen and known to ouershine an other, as much as the glorious Sun doth his eclipsed si∣ster, the Moon. Hence have issued so many noble and he∣roike Virtues; Sagacity, exquisitnesse of judgment, Pru∣dence, Art, in the administration of high affairs. For, al∣though in probabilities are no evident certainties, yet doe they so far forth oft-times advantage and advance unto the knowledge of certainty, that it is almost equal unto certainty, and doth persuade and settle discreet resolution and disposition in all affairs. In this consists the height, the top, the some of Art, and the perfection of all humane knowledge, above or beyond which, no man could ever soar or level. By this light only the former mentioned means


failing, is oft times gained much excellence of natural know∣ledge to man, beyond and without which the eye and sight of knowledge in man is sealed up, his understanding dark∣ned, and cannot know many hidden things. And thus to him that rightly doth meditate and consider, it is undoubtedly clear and certain, how the Creator and infinite Prince of all principles hath founded the beginning & end, the power and posse of all knowledge, upon one of the former ways of inuestigation, beside which there is no natural knowledge to be expected. Philosophy as yet never found other  ways unto that infinite number of all Arts and Sciences, so admi∣rably flourishing thorough so many ages of the world. For this cause the most excellent & prime Philosopher, Aristotle, rejects whatsoever cānot be found by Sense, or proved by reason, as spurious. Likewise Ptolomie hath bounded the true Art of Astronomy within satum Physicum, within a necessi∣tie in Nature, and to distinguish it from superstition (where∣with curiosity usually defiles or intangleth it) doth limit it intra conuenientem nature modum, that is, within proportion and measure answerable to Reason and Nature. For this cause also, all true Philosophers have determined the two only instruments of all true Arts, to bee Reason and expo∣rience, which Galen doth call the two legs whereupon the Art of Physique doth consist. And therefore in the second chapter of his Finitiones medicae, he saith, Optimus is est Me∣disuse, qui omnia in Medicina rest agit ration, that is, he who doth all things in his subject of Physique, according to right rule of reason, is the most excellent Physician.
From hence also all true Artists have defined Art to bee, Habitus cum ration factiuus, that is, a settled hability, and promptness of action, and operation according to reason. Upon this ground others have built other true rules and observations, concerning true and lawful Arts. Therefore (saith Galen) ars non est ex ijs quorum neutiquam est potestas, Isagog. chap. 5. that is, Art is not of such things as cannot be accomplished. Which is worthy noting, to distinguish prestigious and supposed Arts from true Art. To this o∣theirs


likewise have added another observation, that is; that Art is employed about such things as are in reason profit∣ble and not vain. So saith Scaliger, exercit. 37 Sect. 31. Ars non est de rebus inutilibus. It is yet further observed upon the same ground, that true Art doth not confound or cloud it self in mists, but reduces unto order, light and reason, things dissipate, confused, and out of order and reason (as Cicero affirms) Ars res diuulsas dissolutasque conglutinat, & ration quadam constringit. Upon the same grounds divers renowned common weals have expelled all false and forged Arts: as, Necromancy, Aeromancy, Ge∣omancy, with other sortiligous Divinations. Upon the same reasons, divers Emperors, Kings, Kingdoms and Laws, have exploded, censured, and condemned all such as under pretext of the wholesome Arts of Astrono∣my, Mathematikes, and the like, have run into foolish curiosities, impostures, and deceitful practises. Iustinian the Roman Law-giuer and Emperor, his laws are extant to this purpose. Likewise Tiberius his Decrees for the expul∣zion of counterfeit Mathematicians and Magicians. And Vlpian in his book de Mathematicis & Maleficis, testi∣fieth the publication of their goods, and their inhibition by the Emperors from communion with other Citizens so much as in fire or water. And as Reason, good Laws, Kingdoms, Nations, and Common-weales have destine∣guished ingenuous, liberal, true and profitable Arts, and Sciences builded upon reason, truth and understanding; from base, ignoble, unprofitable, needless, curious, and er∣ronious Arts: so hath the holy Scripture both justified, sanctified, and commended the one, and condemned, and nominated with rebuke and shame the other. The first is evident, Exod. 3. verse 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. where Almighty God doth testify concerning the knowledge and skill of workmanship in gold, silver, and stone, that he gave it by his Spirit unto Bezaleel, and Aholiab, who were workmen according to knowledge and understanding in that lawful Art, profitable unto the building of Gods house. The se∣cond

is manifest, Acts 19. verse 19. where it is in their due commendations recorded, that those who before used and practised vain and curious Arts, when they were by the preaching of the Apostles truly converted, in token of their vndissembled repentance, they absolutely renoun∣ced and disclaimed their vain learning, and openly burnt their books, though valued at an high rate and rich price.

CHAP. II. That no Knowledge can come unto man in any Art or Science, but by Sense or Reason, or likely and artificial conjecture; is proved by the Science and Knowledge of Physique in stead of all other Arts and Sciences.
NOw for the better impression of that which hath been before said: that is, that nothing is or can bee detected, or is liable unto mans knowledge, which com∣meth not unto him by the help of Reason, the inward or the outward Sense, Demonstration, Ratiocination, or iudi∣cious and prudent Coniectation in reasonable likelihood: let vs examine any one particular, ingenuous, liberal or lawful Art or Science, in stead of many, and therein view, how by the former mentioned keys, doors and entrances solely, are opened the ways unto their contemplations, study, and perfect apprehension. And if one Art or Science may bee sufficient herein, I think it most fit to choose my own, because as to my self most prompt; so unto any o∣there not unprofitable. All diseases that happen unto the body of man are either outward or inward, and therefore either seen by the eye, and deprehended by the outward Sense, or conceived only by Reason and the inward Un∣derstanding. Inward diseases, and subject only unto rea∣son and understanding doe sometimes appear clearly and certainly to reason and understanding; sometimes they doe not appear certain, or by certain notes or signs, but by likely marks only, which are the grounds of art∣ficiall conjecture.



And as some diseases are apparent to outward sense, some evident to inward reason, some by artificial cony∣cture only in learned, exact search and perquisition pur∣sued unto their discovery: so also are many diseases hidden from all these ways of inuestigation, and therefore re∣maine as remembrances of mans manifold ignorance in this life, and of the secret reservation of Gods decree and prohibition. As then in those diseases which are apparent unto sight, it is blindness in a Physician to make question; in those which are evident to reason, to make doubt, is rea∣sonlesse fatuitie; in those which may be attained by artifice∣all coniectation, search or perquisition, either to be slack, is sloth, or to bee unable, is insufficiency: so in those dis∣eases, which neither outward sense, not inward reason, nor Art, nor artificial conjecture can possibly discover; to hope or seek beyond Sense and Reason, and reasonable likelihood, is reasonless and senseless striving, and imp∣tience of those bounds which God hath set to limit the curiosity of man. For better proof and illustration, it will not bee impertinent to nominate some particular diseases in all these kinds. First for outward diseases, and such as are evident to outward sense, they are infinite. Who that is the least practised in Physic, doth not assuredly know, when, with his eyes he doth behold an inflammation, a Schirrus, a Gangrene, Cancer, Callus, Fistula, Ulcer, Le∣prosie, Psora, Struma, Petechia, Vatiola, Iaundes, Gout, Tabescence, Extenuation, and the like. Secondly, for in∣ward diseases evident to reason; he that is least learned, doth know that all diseases which may be defined, must necessa∣rely be evident to reason; as also, that it is not difficult to define innumerable diseases to him that is able to  conioine with the part affected, the true immediate kind of the af∣fection. The stomach ceasing her proper function of con∣coction, or deprived of appetite, doth it not thereby mani∣festly prove unto reason some inward ill affection there∣in? If with that ill affection bee joined a manifest inward heate above the region of the stomach, accompanied with


an Ague, dryness, thirst and other accidents, and consequen∣ces of heate is not as plainly detected the kind of the affe∣ction to be hot?
Thus both the part affected, which is the stomach appa∣rently (because there the former accidents are found origi∣nally moving and first seated,) and also the ill affection (which by the manifest burning heate doth prove her kind) being both conjoined, doe truly define the disease to bee an inflammation of the stomach. The like may bee said of the inflammations of all other inward parts of Plu∣rises, Frenzies, inflammation of the Liver, Spleen, Womb, Reins, Guts and other parts, the certain testimo∣niece of excessive heate giving demonstration of an inflame∣motion, and the pain (or at least, some defect) or defection in the proper offices of the parts manifesting the parts themselves. As concerning inward inflammations of divers parts, so likewise of inward Ulcers, and other maladies may be instanced. The disease of the bladder is oft certainly known, by pain in the part, or by cessation of his proper functions, or defection therein, and the kind of disease therein by the excretions oft-times proceeding from it. And thus an Ulcer is oft discovered in the bladder, by pain, with purulent and sanguiuolent miction. Diseases likewise of the head are certainly discovered and detected unto rea∣son, by defects growing; sometimes in the understanding, sometimes in the memory, sometimes in the imagination, sometimes in all those together, & sometimes in the general motion of the whole body. Diseases of the heart likewise, appear by the evil and faulty motions of the pulse, by soundings and defections in livelihood of the spirits and vital faculty. Diseases of the Womb or Mother likewise doe oft demonstrate themselves by deprived or depraved motions. It were tedious to make a particular enume∣ration of all diseases of this kind, which are in the same manner evident and apparent unto reason.

Now let vs briefly also consider some diseases, which are neither evident to Reason, nor manifest to Sense; but are gained, detected, and hunted out of their deep and hidden



coverts, by the quick and exquisite sent of probable and artificial conjecture; the necessity or use whereof, either in an ambiguous complication of doubtful diseases, or in the extrication of any intricate single affection or malady, there is no man in Physic exercised, who doth not daily find. Many examples of diseases of this kind would cause the small body of this little work voluminously to swell: we will therefore only propose one.
Let vs suppose a sick man, doubtfully and diversely with these accidents afflicted: namely, a continual fever, a cough, spitting of blood, shortness of wind, head-ache, deliration, want of sleep, dryness, thirst, pains in divers parts, sides, ribs, back and belly: What disease or dis∣eases here are, can neither be manifest to sense, distracted in this confusion, multitude and concurrence of accidents; nor yet be evident to reason at the first view, because it re∣quireth so different consideration, and divided contempla∣tion of so many seuerals apart. Here then it remains, that learned, judicious, prudent, and discreet artificial cony∣cture proceed exactly to distinguish & analise, as follows. All the forenamed pains, distempers and accidents may indifferently arise, either from the Lungs inflamed, or the Liver, or the Midriff, or the Pleura; because any one of these by it self doth usually bring forth all, or most part of them. Here then prudent, artificial, and exquisite per∣pension doth exactly value and esteem all the different manners, quantities, qualities, positions and situations of pains; likewise accidents, motions, times, manners of mo∣tion, characters, orders, and all other both substantial and circumstantial considerations.

And first, as touching the fever, head-ache, thirst, idleness of brain (because they are common to many other diseases besides these, and require no curious, but a more careless and common respect,) prudent and circumspect coniectation doth leave their needless confusion of more useful and needful perpension, and doth more narrowly search about those accidents, which are more inseparable, proper and peculiar unto the diseases named, and by exact



disquisition in their differences, doth notwithstanding sift out their hidden and secretly couched differences, by which, in exact view they are found and distinguished suffi∣ciently differing. The inseparable accidents which doe pe∣culiarly, or for the most part accompany the diseases before named, that is, the inflammation of the Lungs, the Liver, the Midriff and the Pleura, are cough, shortness of wind, spitting of blood, pains about the ribs, sides, belly, which in all these named diseases, more or less are present, either primarily, or by consent of one part with another. These, though seldom absent from most of the four former dis∣eases, and therefore not easily distinguished, when they proceed from th'one or the other; yet rightly weighed, and accurately considered in their several manners, measures, and right positions in every one, when apart and single, they doe likewise in their confused mixture one with ano∣there, yield distinct and several difference to him, that in a judicious and discerning thought, doth bear their just di∣stinctions apart. For illustration, spitting of blood is usually a companion to all, or most of the four named diseases; but in one in less quantity, in another more; in one after one manner, in another after another; in one by vomiting, in another by expectoration, and in another by coughing; in one with much expuition, in another with little; in one with danger of strangulation and suffocation, in another without; in one with thickness, blackness, and small queen∣tity of blood, in another with thinness, brightness of colour, and more quantity; and in one of these also with less, and in another with more difficulty and labour. Shortness of wind, or difficulty of breathing, is a com∣mon companion to all the named diseases; but in one with frequent expuition, in another without, and where, with expuition, in one with more facility, in another with dif∣ficulty, in one with one manner of distension of the instruments of respiration, in another with another, in one kind of difficulty of respiration more frequent, in another less, in one more grievous, in another tolerable.


The like may be said of coughing, and pains. Coughing in one of the forenamed diseases is with much, in another with little, and in another with no expuition at all; in one continual, in another with intermission; in one with intone∣zion, in another with remission; in one loud, in another still; and where, with expectoration, in one of one colour and quantity, in another of another, and in another of none at all; in one easy, gentle, free and without pain, in another, grievous and painful; yea suffocatory, and near to stran∣gl. Pain likewise is a common companion to all the men∣tioned diseases; but distinguished in the one and the other, by the manner, nature, and situation of the several parts, which apart is every one it possesses, and also by the diffe∣rent odds, fashions, and kinds of pain; some being sharp, some dull, some quick, some slow, some with distension, some with punction, some with heaviness and sensible weight, some more grievous to the Patient lying, some to him sitting or standing, some more calm in one position of the body, and some in another.
And thus prudent an skilful conjecture, by due and dili∣gent perpension, comparing together odds, and exactly referring unto true discerning the several properties and differences of accidents, their manner proportions, and o∣there due circumstances, doth in the end reduce every acci∣dent to his right disease, and every disease to his right cause; whereby the prudent, and judicious Physician doth clearly understand directly and timely to apply proper and perti∣nent remedies. And thus in doubtful cases, which are nei∣there evident to Reason, nor manifest to Sense in the Art and exercise of Physique, it is manifest how solert and accurate coniectation, through the clouds and mists of ambiguities, doth in the end so clearly send forth and give so fair a light, that doubt it self doth become out of doubt, and is little inferior unto certain and plain demonstration. As a short sum of all that hath been said, whatsoever hath been declared of diseases, the same may bee propounded concerning their issues very briefly.




The issues of all diseases are either informed from Sense, or evident by reason, or scrutable by artificial conjecture. Examples of the first kind are manifest, when with our eyes we behold the motion and Sense external and other outward functions of the body, either abolished, or in an high degree deprived of their power and natural use.
This certain testimony of our sight doth certainly in∣form the understanding, concerning the dangerous issue.

Examples of the second kind are manifest likewise, we find either the causes of diseases unremoveably fixed, or the disease it self rooted in the substance of any of the principal parts, or accidents in malignity, vehemence, and fury irresistible. In these cases a doubtful and hard issue is evident to Reason by just consequent.

Examples of the latter kind are also apparent, when in diseases, good and evil signs are so doubtfully mixed, that some promise Life, others as much threaten Death: some in number discourage, other some in worth as much as in∣courage. We doe oft see and know in the midst of this mist and darkness, where there appears not to a common sense so much as the least show of any indication of certain issue; yet through the exquisiteness of prudent & artifice∣all perpension, and due exact distinction in the foremen∣tioned seeming inscrutable odds; the learned Physician even in the first scarce sensible budding of indication, and in the first most imperfect and scarce being thereof doth oft discover that true event, which usually and for the most part is seen and observed to come to posse.

If any man not rightly apprehending reason, make a doubt or question of any such possible exquisitnes, let him consider and behold it by an easy example. In an in∣equality of one and the same Vermiculant pulse, where the beginning of the same distension is quicker, the next conti∣nuation or middle part isle over, and the beginning of the end thereof, ending almost before it begin: it must needs be very difficult, nay, almost impossible unto the first view of Sense or Reason, or to a common judgment or learning,


to divide really, and distinguish this one short small motion into two or three distinct times and parts of motion, the space so very short, the faculty of moving so low and weak, and the moving it self almost altogether in an in∣sensible exiguitie, and an indiuisible degree of lowness.
Wee see oft-times a common vulgar cannot in his reason conceive it, much less by his sense at all perceive it. Neither is it found easy to every man, though learned therein, yea, or educate thereto, either perfectly to apprehend the gene∣rall Idea of such a motion, or at all in the first proofs and trials of his sense or hand to deprehend any particular. Not∣withstanding, the Physician that exquisitely discerns and judges, doth both in reason see, that every single smallest motion, hath his divers distinct division of parts, & also by his discerning, wary, judicious and exercised touch, doth a∣partly detect and discover it: And thus hath been proved by several instances taken in the art of Physic, in stead of al other Arts and Sciences, for avoiding tediousness and con∣fusion, that all knowledge, all Art, all Science whatsoever given unto man, hath no other entrance, means, or ways thereto, but thorough Sense or Reason, or prudent and artifi∣ciall conjecture, sagacity and exquisiteness of judging and discerning thereby.

And that it may the better appear, that beyond these ways and lights, the Physician cannot find any knowledge or discovery of Diseases: let vs view some particular exam∣ples of some Diseases for this cause vndiscouerable and not to be detected: and therewith consider the impossibility of discovery to consist solely herein; namely, for that they are removed from any capacity of Sense or Reason, and from the reach of all artificial search, scrutiny & accurate insight derived from both, which is the highest strain of humane Understanding. In the general it cannot be denied (except of such whose understandings are extremely blind) that it is impossible, that those diseases should or can bee at all so much as suspected (and therefore much less known) which yield no show, no sign, no indication of themselves. There



needs hereof no other, nor better proof, then the enu∣meration of some particular diseases of this kind.
Are not divers secret and hidden Apostemations, and other inward collections of vicious matter in the body, daily Seminaries of unexpected and wondered shapes of corruption and putrefaction, which lying long hidden in the body, and by an insensible growth taking deep root, in the end suddenly break forth beyond all possible expo∣ctation, or thought of the most excellent, exquisite and sub∣till circumspection and disquisition? For a brief confer∣motion hereof, Hollerius doth mention a man, the cause of whose disease while he lived, being unknown to Phy∣sicions, and Art, after his decease his guts were found began∣grened and perished, and therein things viewed like unto Water-snakes, and his Liver full of schirrose knots.

There happened unto my self this year last past, a Pati∣ent, a very worthy Gentleman, who being extremely vexed with the Strangury, Disurie, and Ischurie together with pissing of blood in great abundance, and the stone, by the use and accommodation of remedies, found much ease, miti∣gation of pains, and qualification of the extremity of all the former accidents. Notwithstanding, for that there were certain indications of an Ulcer in the body or capa∣city of the Bladder, his recovery was not expected, but af∣la his decease, in the dissection of his body, his Bladder was found rotten, broken and black, without any manifest matter therein as cause thereof, or so much as one stone, although he had formerly and immediately before avoid∣ed many stones at several times. This I produce, being fresh in memory, as an instance of impossibility of know∣ledge unto a Physician in many and frequent cases. For how could the fracture or colour of his Bladder, while the Patient was living, by any exquisiteness of Art or under∣standing, be known in any possibility, means, or power of man, although all the other accidents above mentioned, were undoubtedly, by certain indications and signs dis∣covered? I might here deliver many other like Examples



out of mine own knowledge; I will only call to remem∣bronco one more.
I was of late years Physician unto a right Noble Lady; the cause of whose apparent dangerous estate, divers lear∣ned and famous Physicians conjoined with my self, could never discover. In the dissection of her body after her de∣cease, her heart was found enclosed with a shining rotten gelly, and the very substance of the heart of the same co∣lore.

In the same Lady, an intolerable pain about the boat∣tome of her stomach, by fits deprived her of all ease by day, and of rest by night, and could never be either known in the cause, or removed in the accident by any mean or remedy: but after death, in the dissection of her body be∣fore mentioned, a black round gelly as big as a Tonic ball, did manifest it self in that place, where, in her life, the intolerable pain was seated and fixed.

Of this evil discoloration of her heart, of the matter and evil colour of that matter wherewith her heart was inuiro∣ned; as also of that collected gelly in her stomach, what possible knowledge (think you) or exquisite vnderstan∣ding, or art of man could ever in her life time give any no∣tice or information? Like unto this is that which Hole∣rius in the 21. of his rare observations doth mention. In a sick man perplexed in a strange manner from an unknown cause in his life, after his death his liver and epiploon did appear corrupted and putrefied, his stomach toward the bottom bruised and full of black juice or humour. Chri∣stophorus Schillincus, opening the body of a child after death, reports, that he saw in the small veins, running thorough the substance of the liver, many small scrauling worms then living. Beniuenius doth make mention of a woman tormented grievously by a needle in her stomach, which was impossible by any art or exquisitnesse of under∣standing to bee conceived or suspected, if nature it self working it out thorough the body and substance of the sto∣macke, unto the outward view and Sense, had not so disco∣uered

it. I will not here mention the generation of worms, stones, and the like in the guts, gall, heart, longs and other parts, of which no Art, or excellence of knowledge can pos∣sibly take notice, until they have proved themselves unto the sight. Many diseases of these kinds being fearful and terrible accidents, and afflictions unto the body, yet for the most part are never detected; because they have not one∣lie no proper true certain likely, but no possible means or way of indication or notice at all, in any reason or un∣derstanding of humane Art or Science; without which the most exquisite and Scientific Clarks are altogether dis∣abled, and must necessarily bee ignorant. Thus hath been at large manifested, that nothing can bee unto the Physici∣an in his Art and Science known, which either by outward Sense or inward is not apparent, or by likely and artificial conjecture from both, is not detected or discerned. The like might bee urged concerning the trials of Law and Justice, and inquisitions of offences and errors against the Law, which are the diseases of a Commonwealth, as the for∣mer of the body of man. Many offences against the Law are apparent unto the outward Sense, as sight or hearing: and therefore being witnessed by hearers or beholders, are without doubt or difficulty immediately dispatched, sen∣tensed, and adjudged. Many also are evident to reason, which therefore are held and reputed inuincibly and infal∣libly to convince.
Many offences also there are, neither manifest to Sense, nor evident to reason, against which only likelihood and presumptions doe arise in judgment; whereby notwith∣standing, through narrow search and sifting, strict exam∣nation, circumspect & curious view of every circumstance, together with every material moment and odds thorough∣lie, and unto the depth and bottom by subtle disquisition fadomed, the learned, prudent, and discerning Judge doth oft detect and bring unto light many hidden, intestine, and secret mischiefs, which vnsensibly and vnobseruedly would otherwise oppress and subvert the Commonwealth. When



by none of these ways of extrication the truth can possi∣bly be gained, the wise and upright Judge unto necessity in want of due warrant unto just proceeding, doth with pati∣ence and sobriety submit. For this cause (as may be seen upon records) many cases justly necessarily and vnauoida∣bly stand perpetually inscrutable, vndecided and never de∣termined, as certain proofs & evidences of the limitati∣on and annihilation of mans knowledge in many things of this life: Almighty God oft-times decreeing to hide some truth from the sight of man, and detaining it in his own secret will and pleasure.

CHAP. III. Whether Witch-craft have any other ways or means of inue∣stigation, then these before mentioned, and what is the true inuestigation.
IT hath been at large before declared, how God and Na∣ture have limited and confined all knowledge of man, within certain ways and bounds, out of which, and be∣yond which it cannot posse; as also for that cause, that no iustifiable Art or true Science whatsoever, doth or can ex∣ceed those restraints. There have bin also divers examples produced of the necessity of mans ignorance, in the im∣possibility of much knowledge, and discovery of things hidden and inhibited by the just and unsearchable decrees of God and Nature. It remains now to enquire concer∣ning our particular subject of Witch-craft, whether in the common way of all other detections of truss, it ought likewise consist; or whether by it self it have other privy∣ledges beyond all other trials. If reason be the sole eye and light of natural understanding which God hath given un∣to reasonable man (as is before proved.) If without it can be no natural knowledge, no Art, no Science, no disco∣very. If Law among all people and nations be so just in all things, as to doe or allow nothing against true reason (in



which consists right.) If God himself; and all flower∣shing Common-weales have tied men and Laws, and the decision by them of all doubts, questions and controversies, either unto right proof, evidence and allegation, accor∣ding unto reason, or at least, fair likelihood, presumpti∣on, and probability; and beyond these there never was, is, or can bee any just judgment or trial: How is it possi∣ble that man can attain any knowledge of Witch-craft, if not by those means, by which only his nature is capable of whatsoever is allotted to bee known thereto? If this bee infallibly true, man must either by the former com∣mon ways of knowledge and detection, know likewise and detect Witch-craft, or else bee altogether ignorant thereof; whereof the contrary by daily experience is ma∣nifest. It may bee and is objected, that it is a hard and dif∣ficult matter to detect Witch-craft, by the former and or∣dinary courses, as is oft seen and found apparent. So is it likewise equally difficult, and as hard by the same means oft times, for many a just man to prove and clear his op∣posed innocence, and for many an injuriously wronged wretch to prove his right, to defend his goods, yea, life it self from violence; notwithstanding, this is no allowance unto another way, no reason or justification of any vnwar∣ranted way, or way out of the way of Reason, Justice, and Law, bee his burden never so importable, or his injury ex∣ceeding cruelty.
For, if God had allowed unto men always smooth, issue∣red, certain and infallible ways unto the satisfaction of their wants, and the accomplishment of their intentions and desires without failing; what would become of Reli∣gion, Virtue, and Wisdom? Then should every man be alike wise, and men would bee so confident in their own strength and power, and so proud, that they would forget God and never think of the Almighty. If the means and ways unto all knowledge, and the information of our desires and affections, did meet with no impediment, no opposition, no contradiction, no casualty to intercept, and


all things should prosperously succeed unto our means and endeavours, there would never bee any use of Patience, Temperance, or dependence upon the divine providence; and consequently, little acknowledgement, and less worcester∣ship and adoration of our Creator, who according to his wisdom, good will and pleasure, doth otherwise govern, guide, order and dispose all things. For if unto our sup∣posed needful ends, uses and necessary desires were cer∣taine and uncontrolled ways, nothing impossible, nothing denied; then were our lust a Law, and man in no power but in his own, in no awe, in no Law, in no rule.
Therefore Almighty God in his great and unspeakable Wisdom hath subjected vain man, and made his pride subject to infinite creatures, limits, restraints, coertions, thereby to teach him true wisdom, piety, trust, depen∣dance, worship, and adoration of his all-restraining and al∣limiting unlimited power. Man therefore must thereby learn to be contented so to know, as therewith to learn to know himself; that is, with his large portion, his lot, his manifold endowments, his excellency of Sense, Reason, Un∣derstanding, Prudence, Art, not to forget or spurn at their interdictions, prohibitions, and enjoined lists, beyond which to desire to know, is curiosity, is folly: Sapientia, ve∣ra nolle nimis sapere, saith the Poet. It is true Wisdom, not to bee too wise: that is, not to know, nor desire to know more then is allowed or needful: needful, not in our de∣sires, but Gods Decree.

Here then let me entreat reasonable men, not too much (as is usual) to swell with indignation, or to be puffed with impatience, where God doth not overtly reveal & plain∣lie (as they desire and think needful) the subtle engines, and mystical craft of the Devil in the Machinations of Witches and Sorcerers; but soberly, modestly, and discreet∣lie, so far forth be contented to pursue the trial and just way of their discovery, as with sense, with reason, with Reli∣gion is just and righteous, knowing that whatsoever is be∣yond these lists, is reasonless, senseless, and impious.




For since God and Nature (as is before said) hath lime∣ted the scrutiny of all true Arts, and Sciences, all natural knowledge for discovery of controversies and resolutions unto the lights of Reason and Sense, & artificial conjecture, prudence, Art, Sagacity, and subtlety of understanding de∣riued from thence; unto what other bar or seat of Justice can Witch-craft appeal or be brought?
It may be objected, the Art of Witch-craft, being super∣natural, and the practice thereof sustained by an extraor∣dinary power; that therefore the means and ways of discovery must bee likewise more then ordinary and su∣pernaturall.

Hereto is truly answered, that since the nature and power of Spirits is unknown unto man (as all things su∣pernaturall) and can bee, and is no otherwise known, but by examining the works issuing from thence, and comp∣ring them aright with that which is natural (because man in his Reason and understanding cannot discern that which is truly transcending his Nature, otherwise, then observing how far it exceeds that which is according to Nature:) therefore (I say) the works of the Devil, or Witches, though sustained and produced by a supernatural power, yet can have no other way for their detection by man, but that which is ordinary unto man, and natural and possible unto man; for that which is above or beyond his power, or Nature, is not his own. From hence must necessarily be concluded, that there is no other ordinary way unto man (who knows or can know nothing but that is natural) unto the discovery of that is supernatural, but that way which is likewise natural. Although therefore the sub∣jest of Witch-craft require a greater measure of know∣ledge to discern that which is therein really, and truly supernatural, from that which in nature oft-times hath a very great likeness, and a deceiueable similitude there∣with: yet is the way unto that knowledge, the common high way which conducts unto all other knowledge whatsoever. And that this also is the same way & direction,


which the holy Scripture it self doth intend, for the dis∣couery of witches, and their sentencing is manifest. Number. •9.20. Deuteronomy. 17.6. and 19.15. Matth. 18.16. Iohn 8.17. 2. Corinth. 13.1. Hebr. 10.28. In these named places it is required, that no man bee judged in matter of weight, or death, but by the testimony of two witnesses, at the least. Witch-craft therefore being a matter, both of weight, and death, cannot according unto Gods word, bee judged but by testimony of witnesses: whatsoever is witnessed, must necessarily bee subject to sense, since no man can witness ought, whereof there is not sense. From hence then it is inevitably concluded, that the works of Witches, are no other way to bee discerned, or judged, but by the common way of discovery, by deeds, and works apparent to sense, and the testimony thereof. Let men then bee pursue∣ded and contented (since God hath allotted, and allowed unto the nature and power of man no other way) in this only warranted true way to seek the discovery, to find the footing, path, and steppings of Witch-craft, as of all other things, which by the Decree of God are reuea∣led unto man, and subject unto the knowledge of man. It may bee here demanded, whether Almighty God doth not extraordinarily, and miraculously at some time disco∣for this so abominable sin of Witch-craft, as well as by ordinary means leave it unto discovery? This doubt shall more fitly in more due place be hereafter at large dis∣coursed. It hath now been here manifested, that there is or can bee no other ordinary trail of Witch-craft, then that which is common unto all other detections of truth: and also that all detections subject unto the discovery of man (as hath been before cleared) are drawn and derived either from Sense or Reason, or likely probability raised from both.
Before I doe proceed farther, for his more facile under∣standing, I doe admonish the Reader, that he distinguish, what is mean by the supernatural works; namely, what∣soever is effected, in, upon, or by any corporal substances,



or sublunary bodies, which is above the nature, and power of those bodies, or sublunary substances. They are not su∣pernaturall, in regard of those spiritual substances, which are the proper agents, and unto whom such works, are no more then natural; but in regard of those bodily sub∣stances, upon which, in which, or by which, those spiritual substances doe work, as merely their patients, and be∣ing in themselves, or own nature deprived of any such possibility.

CHAP. IIII. Of the works of Witches and Devils.
BEfore wee proceed further to treat concerning mat∣la of Witch-craft, according to the former ways of discovery and inuestigation: it will be needful to di∣stinguish who is the true Author, cause, and immediate workman of the supernatural works which by Sorcery and Witch-craft are compassed or brought to posse.

All created substances endowed with powers and virtue from God their Creator, are either bodily, or corporal substances, or spiritual, or mixed and between both.

Bodily and corporal substances are the heavens, the ce∣lestiall bodies of the Stars, of the Sun, of the Moon; the bodies of the elements, and all elementary substances from them derived and composed.

Spiritual substances are either Angels, or Devils, or souls of men after death, separated from their bodies.

Mixed substances, partly Spiritual, partly bodily, are mankind compounded of a natural body, and under∣standing soul.

Hence it comes to posse, that man by his vnderstan∣ding Spirit, doth together with Angels, Spirits, and Devils, participate and understand many things; as the Scripture revealed; the History and Creation of the whole world; many truths of God; the grounds of Reason; the prince∣ples



of Nature; many general rules and observations, and infinite particular objects of many things past, present, and to come. But for that this understanding Soul is depressed, and imprisoned in this life by the body, by the passions, dis∣eases, and manifold encumbrances thereof, and cannot ex∣tend or enlarge it self further unto any portion of know∣ledge, then thorough the narrow windows, closures, parts and organs of the body: therefore must necessarily the knowledge of man be much inferior unto that measure of knowledge, which Spirits, being of a more subtle es∣sense, and free from the burden and encumbrance of an earthly tabernacle or prison, doe in a more large extent in∣joy.
As is said of the difference of knowledge in Spirits, be∣yond the power and nature of man: so may be said from the same reason of the difference of the works of spirits, far enlarging and extending their virtue and power, be∣yond the power and force of men.

The works of men, are confined within the power and nature of these sublunary bodies, unto which they are annexed, and tied.

The works of Spirits are limited to no corporal sub∣stance or body, but spaciously compass the whole and uni∣uersall body of the sublunary or inferior world (as the Devil doth witness of himself, Iob 1. verse 7.) and are not tied unto any particular place, but rule generally therein, and in all places by the permission of God, as is evident, Eph. 2. ver. 2. where the Devil is called the Prince that rules in the ayre, even the Spirit that now works in the children of disobedience: and likewise, Ephes. 6. verse. 12. where he is called the Prince of darkness of this world.

From these undoubted grounds, it is necessarily inferred, that both all knowledge exceeding the knowledge of man, must needs issue from the knowledge of Spirits, and also that all works exceeding and transcendent, above the power and nature of corporal substances, must necessarily



be the force of Spirits. It may now be demanded how the works of good Spirits shall be known and distinguished from the works of evil Spirits and devils, since both their works proceed from the same nature, substance, and spiritual essence common unto them both. This shall appear by the consideration of the orders and sorts of good Spirits, expressed in holy Scripture, and their pro∣parties, besides which, all other are necessarily evil, and therefore devils; like unto whom likewise, by just con∣sequent must be their works, the one reciprocally  dis∣covering the other. All good Spirits are either Angels and Messengers of God, specially sent with his holy embassage, to special holy men, for special holy ends; as was the Seraphin sent unto Isaiah, the 6. Chapter, verse 6. and as were the Angels unto the Shepherds, when our Saviour was borne, or as were the Angels which were sent unto the Patriarchs of old, or else tutelar Angels, ordinarily com∣manded to guide, protect, and defend the Elect and chosen children of God, as is manifest both by the testimony of our Saviour, Math. 18. verse. 10. See that you despise not (saith our blessed Saviour) one of these little ones: For I say unto you, that in heaven their Angels always behold the face of my Father, which is in heaven. And by that Text al∣so, Hob. 1. verse. 14. Are they not all ministering Spirits (saith the Apostle, speaking of Angels) sent forth to mini∣ster for their sakes, who shall be heirs of salvation? Beside these orders of good and holy Spirits, neither hath the holy Scripture, neither hath the light of reason, or nature, or obe∣seruation, known or discovered any other.
All the works likewise and employments of these good Spirits, are all and ever observed to be like themselves, holy, good, freely serving and ministering unto the express will, known and undoubted pleasure of Almighty God, as is certainly consumed, Psal. 108. verse 20. Praise ye the Lord (saith the Psalmist) ye his Angels that excel in power, that doe his commandments in obeying the voice of his word.



All works therefore or effects issuing from Spirits, that cannot bee proved and manifested to be first commanded by  God; secondly, tending solely to the execution of his will; and thirdly, are not contained in one of the four first mentioned offices and administrations of Spirits, they are all certainly and assuredly to be suspected as works of devils and evil spirits, whom God doth permit (as saith S. Augustine in his 3. Book de Trinitate) to bring to posse such works of theirs, partly to deceive those wicked, which God in judgment hath given over to be deceived of devils; partly, to quicken and stir up the godly and holy man, and to try and prove him thereby, as he did his faith∣full servant Iob.
Now for a more distinct clearness and light unto the proof of these suspected works of devils, it is very pro∣fitable, necessary and pertinent, that we consider their kinds, which are two. The first kind is of such supernatural works as are done by the devil solely and simply to his own ends or use, without any reference or respect to any contract or covenant with man. The second kind is of such transcendent works, as are done with a respect or reference unto some contract or covenant with man. In the first, the devil is solely  an Agent for himself, without the con∣sent or knowledge of man. In the second, the supernatural and transcendent works are truly, essentially, and immedi∣italy from the devils; also (because out of the reach or power of any command of man simply) yet therein man hath a property and interest by covenant and contract, and derivation thereof from the devil, which is truly and solely Sorcery, and Witch-craft: for since supernatural works are only proper to a Spirit, and above the nature and power of man, they cannot truly and properly bee esteemed his; and therefore it is not the supernatural work it self, but mans contract and combination therein with the devil, his consent a and allowance thereof, that doth make it his, and him a Witch, a Sorcerer, which is a b con∣tractor


with the devil.[b] Now let vs proceed to consider how these supernatural works in the former several kinds are or may be detected, some by Reason, some by Sense.

CHAP. V. The works of the Devil by himself, solely wrought without the association of man.
IT is not destitute of easy proof, that there are many supernatural works of the devil manifest to sense, wherein man doth not participate in knowledge, contract or consent with him. Did not the Devil in the body of a Serpent miraculously  reason, dispute, speak and confer with Eua, Gen. 3? Was not his speech and voice undoubted∣lie, manifestly, perceptibly, and truly heard, and sounding in her ears? There then was no man as yet borne that could combine with the devil in this supernatural work, or that could then be found a Witch. Likewise, was not the devils carriage of the body of our Saviour, and setting it upon a pinnacle of the Temple, manifest to the eye? Was not the fire which the devil  brought down from heaven in so miraculous manner, and in so extraordinary power to devour so many thousands of Iobs sheep, truly visible? The Messenger escaping to bring the tidings doth witness it. Was not the power of the devil seen at such time, as in the Gospel he carried whole herds of swine headlong into the Sea? Was not the Devil seen to rend and tear the bodies of men by him possessed, in an extraordinary and supernatural manner and sort, Mark the first, Luke 4. Math. 17. Mark the ninth? Was not the very voice of a Spirit heard and distinguished, when the devil in so fear∣full and marvelous manner cried out in the possessed, Math. 8. Mark. 5. Luke 8? Did not the people behold the miraculous force of the devil casting the possessed into the midst of them, Luke 4. verse 33, 34, 35? Did not the



people hear and behold a foul Spirit crying aloud, and in an• birab•• power and manner coming out of the pos∣sessed, Mark 24, 25, 26, 27? All these were works su∣pernaturall of the devil, and manifest to outward sense; yet no mention, no suspicion, no reason of mention, or su∣spicion of a Witch or Sorcerer: wherein therefore the devil alone was sole Agent. But it may be objected, that these ex∣amples out of the holy Scriptures are recorded as things specially seen, or noted in some special ages and times, which after-times and other ages doe not, or cannot afford.
The contrary is manifest by the faithful histories and true reports of Ethnic writers, who living it distant ages, doe not differ in the true consent and harmony of the same re∣port, concerning the same things, as they have succeeded in their several ages. It is not incredible, but certain unto any common Reader, what divers authors of approved faith and credit, in several ages have written: how the devil not only out of the bodies and several parts,  a part of the bodies of men have uttered words, and spoken with the voice of men, even as in the Gospel he did out of the pos∣sessed; but also out of trees, caves of earth, images & statues. The first is evident by the general report from one suc∣ceeding age unto another, concerning the Pythons Pythonici 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 Ventriloqui, and the like. The second was never hid many hundredth of years, for many ages long before the birth of our blessed Saviour, as is apparent by the fa∣mous Oracle of Delphos, the Oak of Dodona, the Statue of Memnon. Petrus Gregorius Tholosanus, in his Syntagma iuris, recites this history concerning certain statues at Alexandria, that they did fall unto the ground suddenly, and with an audible voice declared the death of Mauricius the Emperor, even at the same moment and point of time when he was then slain at Rome.

As the Devil doth show himself by voices and sounds in trees, caves, statues, and the like: so doth he in divers o∣there outward shapes and forms of other creatures.





Thus he appeared unto Eua, and spake unto her in the shape of a Serpent aforesaid. Of his appearance in divers other forms likewise are many Testimonies. Neither doe Philosophers differ or doubt herein. Aristotle in his Meta∣physics hath these words. 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. That is, substances are called simple bodies, as water, earth, fire and the like, and things compounded thereof, as living creatures and spirits: which is so far forth to be under∣stood of spirits, as they were in assumed shapes visible. Orpheus doth number six kinds of these visible devils or spirits. 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, That is, Spirits inhabiting the heavenly regions, Spy∣ritz ruling in the ayre, in the water, in the fire, in the earth, and under the earth. The Spirits in the Air Plato saith, are presidents of divination, of miracles, and of Chaldaike Magic. The Spirits in the earth, and under the earth are such as appear in the shape of Dogs, and Goats, and the like, moving men unto foul and unlawful lusts as Ianus Jocobus Boissardus in his tractate de Magia & genijs doth testify. The same Author unto this purpose citeth Saint August. lib. 2. Super Genesim ad literam, confirming that Spirits doe use the help of Aerie bodies or substances that they may appear unto men. Unto this open∣neon of the apparitions of Spirits variety of story likewise doth bring forth faith and credit. I will not mention the apparition which happened unto Athenodorus the Philo∣sopher reported by Pliny, nor Brutus his Genius after the death of Iulius Caesar, appearing and speaking unto him, nor those representations, which in the shape of men ap∣peared unto Lucius Domitius, returning toward Rome as Suetonius reports, adding for confirmation of truth in the History, that the apparition touching his beard, it in∣stantly changed from the former perfect black unto a lively yellow, and thereupon he was afterword surnamed Oenobarbus. I will not farther cite ancient times herein. Let vs come unto later days and writers. It is reported


by Iohn de Serres the French Chronicler, that the late re∣nowmed K. of France, Henry the 4. being in his hunting sports, a Devil or Spirit presented unto the Kings ears and his whole company, a great cry of hounds, and win∣ding of horns. The King commanded Count Soissons to go see who it was, wondering who durst interrupt his game. The Earl still issuing forward toward the noise, still heard it, but seemed nothing nearer unto it, though desiring to come nearest unto it. At length a big black man presented himself in the thickest of the bushes, and speaking unto the Earl some few words, suddenly va∣nished.
There could be no deceit in so many ears and witnesses, nor can the objection of a mere imagination stand vncon∣trouled of the just reproof of want of wit and good man∣ners, in doubt or denial of so fair and so well advised due testimonies.

Master Fox, in the life of Martin Luther, doth relate the apparition and conference of the Devil with a young man; who upon contracts agreed between the Devil and himself, delivered unto the Devil his bond for condition∣ned performances.

Speed in his Chronicle, and relation of the passage of many affairs, within the time of Henry the 4. doth make mention of the apparition of the Devil in the habit of a Minority Fryer at Danbury Church in Essex, with such thundering, lightning, tempests, and fire-bals, that the vault of the Church brake, and half the Chancel was car∣ried away.

I will not further recite infinite Histories and Reports, which may seem to depend upon the obscure or doubted credit of superstitious factions, or partial Authors, but of such only as by the common consent of times, and general voice of all Writers, exact credit and esteem.

In this kind what a multitude of Examples doth the whole current and stream of all Writers of all ages afford? Who almost that reads any ancient classical Author, can avoid the common mention of fained gods,  and goddesses of the field, of the woods, of the mountains, of houses, of deserts, of rivers, of springs, and the like, offering them∣selves unto men and people, sometimes in one shape, some∣times in another; requiring worship, ceremonies and rites; some in one manner, some in another; doing strange and ad∣meted works oft-times, sometimes pleasantly encountering people, sometimes menacing?
Hereupon grew the multitude and variety of names given unto them, according to the several manners, shapes, gestures, and places which they used; as  Fane, Satire, Nymph, Empusa, Lemurs. All Christians, who know God, his word, and truth, and thereby believe one only true God, must needs assure themselves that all these were evil Spirits, and Devils.  That such were, all times, ages, histories, and records of times with one universal consent confirm. That they were manifestly seen, known, & fam∣iliarly by the outward senses discerned and distinguished, cannot bee denied, by the several descriptions of their manners, assumed shapes and gestures.

And thus briefly avoiding the tediousness of the multi∣tude of uncertain particular examples given by private men, I have by undoubted and uncontrolled references un∣to ages and successions of continued histories from one un∣to another manifested, how among the heathen, the Devil hath apparently offered himsele unto the outward sense, without the association of a Witch or Sorcerer: Which was likewise before proved by instances out of the holy Scripture. In all these the Devil hath affected to  coun∣terfeit the apparitions of the blessed Angels of God unto his holy servants, thereby to make himself like or equal unto God in ignorant and vnbeleeuing hearts.



CHAP. VI. Works done by the Devil, with respect unto Covenant with Man.
IT now follows to give examples of such supernatural works as are offered by the Devil, wherein man hath an interest and property by contract with the Devil; as also to show that these works are manifest in like manner unto the outward sense. Unto this proof out of holy Scripture, behold the Witch of Endor. Did not Saul con∣tract with her, and she promise unto Saul to bring up Sam∣uel unto him? Did not Saul see the vision raised by her, or at least speak thereto, and receive answer there-from, 1. Sam. 28.8? were not then his eyes and ears (those two outward senses) certain witnesses of her Sorcery? Behold also the Sorcerers of Egypt. Did not Pharaoh see and view with his eyes those great and mighty Sorceries, water turn∣ed into blood, rods into Serpents, Frogs caused to issue out upon the face of the earth?

And as the holy Scripture doth afford vs these examples, so are the histories of all ages, people, and countries, fraught with the like as manifest to sense as these, and as ap∣parently detecting and pointing out the Sorcerer and Sor∣cery.

Levy reports, in those ancient days of Rome, that the Roman Claudia, a vestal Virgin, did show her self in act, able alone with ease and facility to draw a mighty ship by a small line or girdle, which was in the weight and greatness unmovable, against the force and power of many strong men, assisted by the strength of cattle accustomed to draw mighty and heavy burdens. That this was an act superna∣turall, and above, and beyond any natural virtue or force in her Nature, is madness to doubt. That in this supernatu∣rall act also, she had a property by her allowance and like∣ing



thereof, expressed by her voluntary action of under∣taking and drawing; who can make doubt? The act was supernatural, and above her power and nature: her good will, allowance, and voluntary putting the act in practice, did prove her consent, if not contract, with that power and nature superior unto her own, which is undoubtedly, Sor∣cery, and Witch-craft. To this purpose, saith Binefieldius, Explicat. in praelud. 5. Requiritar in maleficio hominis libera voluntas quam Diabolus non potest cogere, sed persuadere tan∣tum aut terror. That is, in Witch-craft necessarily the will, or consent of man, must concur with the Devils work, for the Devil cannot force, or compel the will of man, but persuades it only, or affrights it. And again he saith, that whosoever doth pretend to doe those things, which are above the power, and reach of man, by any na∣turall causes, which causes are allowed no such effects, either in nature, or in Gods word, or by any ordinance of of his Church, that man doth closely, or tacitly invoke the Devil. Quotes (inquit) quis contendit illud facere, per causas naturales, quae nec virtute sua natural, neque ex divine aut Ecclesiastica possunt illud facere, Tacitè in vocatur Daemon.
Tuccia also a vestal Virgin, is reported by mumbling of a certain prayer, to keep water within a sieve, or a rid∣dl, as witnesses not only Pliny, but even Tertullian.

[19] Camerarius makes mention of a man, who armed only with certain charms, would undertake to receive upon his body, without harm, bullets, or shot out of the fiery Cannon.

He makes also mention of another, who would under∣take to lay his hand upon the mouth of the like instrument, even when the fire was already given, and thereby cause the flame appearing in the mouth thereof, together with the shot there, to stay.

The like is reported by Ianus, Iacobus, Boissardus, con∣corning a Germane Count in his book de Divination. It is related upon good record, that Decius Actius the Augur, was able to report unto Tarquinius the Roman King, the



very particular which he intended, & prepared in his most secret designs. It is written of the Euthusiastes, or Prophe∣tesses of Diana in Castabala, a town of Cilicia, that they would walk usually, & voluntarily, with naked & bare feet, upon hot burning coals, without any hurt, or alteration by the fire. It is recorded concerning Pythagoras, that he would by certain secret words, compel a feeding Ox, Bullock, or the like, immediately to stand still, and for∣bear his meat. Others report of him, that he would com∣mand wild beasts, and Birds, Bears, and Eagles, to come unto him, to grow tame, to follow him. It is credibly re∣ported of the same Pythagoras, that he was at once by se∣uerall parties seen, in the very same point of time, both in the City of Thurium, and the town of Metapontum.
Apollonius likewise was translated, as it were, in the twinkling of an eye, or in the space of a word speaking from Smyrna, unto Ephesus, as some Histories report. That the power by which these things were done, was more then humane, no Reason can doubt. That also the voluntary accession of these men's disposing, or opting themselves unto these works, doth prove their consent, and by consent in consequence of reason, society with a Spirit, who can doubt? And for this cause, Binsfieldius terms it a tacit contract, as is aforesaid.

But here by the way, is just occasion offered unto a question; namely, whether a Spirit or Devil can cause or bring to posse, that the same true body at once may bee re∣ally in two distant places, as it seems by this history of Pythagoras.

The answer hereto must needs in reason bee negative; because it is impossible in nature, and in the ordinary un∣changeable course of all things by God created, that one individual and continued substance, or entire thing should be wholly divided from it self, and yet be it self, or possi∣bly be twice, or bee in two places, and yet bee but one and the self same thing.

We must therefore rather here think that the devil is a


Juggler, presenting the lively shape and portraiture of Pythagoras in one place, and thereto happily by his supernatu∣rall power, adding a counterfeit livelihood of speech and gesture, while the true substance is certainly and truly seen in another place. That these like practises are usual with the devil, is apparent in many other kinds beside. Did he not undertake, Math. 4. verse 8. unto wisdom it self our blessed Saviour, to show unto him all the Kingdoms of the earth, a thing so far out of his reach and compass, but on∣lie by a lying and juggling vision? If this he doth unto the Son of God, how shall the silly sons of sinful men es∣cape? It is written by some Authors, that the devil hath persuaded some foolish Sorcerers and Witches, that he hath changed their bodies and substances, into Cats, Asses, Birds, and other creatures, which  really and indeed with∣out illusion (if it be not presumption to reason with the Devil) is impossible unto him to doe. For there can bee no real or true metamorphosing of one substance or nature in∣to another, but either by creation or generation. The one is the sole immediate hand of God, communicable to no creature (because there cannot be two Creators) the other is natural, the finger-worke and power of God in nature, and proper to the nature of living animate creatures, not to Angels or Spirits.
Again, creation is the work of an infinite power, and therefore of God alone, because there can be but one Infi∣night, whose nature containing all things, and contained of nothing, can admit no equal, no second, no other. The Di∣uell then cannot create. That likewise he cannot cause these transmutations by generation, is as plain and evident, be∣cause a true and real generation hath many precedent  alterations, and by little and little in space of time grow∣eth unto the perfection of that kind, unto which it doth tend or is begotten; but these seeming transmutations by the Devil of the substances of Men into Cattes, and the like, are swift and sudden, in a moment, and without pre∣paration:


and therefore are no true, but seeming and juggling transmutations.
Here may be again objected, that the Devil is able to work above the power of Nature; and therefore beside and above the natural course of generation, he is able to make these real transmutations. It is answered, though the devil indeed, as a Spirit, may doe, and doth many things above and beyond the course of some particular natures: yet doth he not, nor is able to rule or command over general Na∣ture, or infringe or alter her inviolable decrees in the per∣petuall and neuer-interrupted order of all generations; neither is he generally Master of universal Nature, but Nature Master and Commander of him. For Nature is nothing else but the ordinary [a] power of God in all things created, among which the Devil being a creature, is con∣tained, and therefore subject to that universal power.

For this cause, although above the power of our parti∣cular nature, the Devil as a Spirit doth many things, which in respect of our nature, are supernatural; yet in respect of the power of Nature in universal, they are but natural unto himself and other Spirits, who also are a kind of creature contained within the general nature of things created: Opposite therefore, contrary, against or above the general  power of Nature, he can doe nothing. Therefore, to conclude this point, he cannot be able to com∣maund or compass any generation above the power of Nature, whose power is more universal and greater then his. We will then hence conclude, that above and beyond the universal Nature and course of all generation, he can∣not make a true transmutation of the substance of any one creature into another.

It was before proved, that it is impossible for him to doe it by creation. It is here manifest, that he cannot doe it by any course of true generation. There can be no real trance∣mutation of one substance into another, without either a creation or generation. Wee will therefore conclude with



the saying of Saint Augustine de Ciuitate Dei, lib. 18 cap. 18 Nec sane Daemones natures creant, sed specie t•nus, quae à Deo creata sunt, commutant, vt videantur esse quae non sunt: that is, devils cannot create any nature or substance, but in juggling show or seeming only, whereby with false shad∣dowes and outward induced shapes covering those things which are created of God, by these commutations they cause them to seem that which they are not indeed.
Concerning other manifest iugglings and illusions of the Devil, divers authors have given divers examples, but that which above all the rest doth most palpably detect him here∣in, is a history related by Ioannes Baptist Port in his second book De Magia natural. He there witnesses, that upon the Devils suggestion, a Witch believed firmly, and per∣swaded her self, that all the night she had rid in the ayre, over divers great Mountains, and met inconuenticles of other Sorceresses; when the same night the mentioned Author himself, with others, had watched and seen her, all that imagined time of her transuection in the ayre, to be within her chamber profoundly sleeping; yea, had smite∣ten her, made her flesh blue with strokes, and could not a wake her, nor persuade her afterword, when she was a waked that they had so used her, or at all had either seen or beheld her. Thus prevalent was the juggling power of the Devil.

S. Austine de Ciuitate Dei, lib. 18. doth deliver an Hi∣story concerning the father of one Praestantius, who lying in a deep trance so profoundly that no means could awake him, did dream (as when he awaked he did report) that he was transformed into an Ass, and carried bagges or burdens of corn into a camp of Soldiers. At the same time, in the same manner, such a like Ass as he in dream imagined himself did bring such burdens into the same camp.

From these examples may bee justly drawn a plain de∣monstration of the Devils palpable juggling and illusion, which also may serve for confirmation, together with the


reasons before annexed unto my former answer, concerning the Devils seeming, or deceitful presentation of the real body of Pythagoras in two distant places at once, in the same point of time. And from all these conioined and conferred, may be truly inferred and collected, that the Devil as he doth many supernatural works really, so he doth many o∣there by illusion and beguiling the imagination.
These his iugglings notwithstanding are things also su∣pernaturall, and tricks only possible to Spirits and impose∣sible to man. For it is impossible to man to frame so lively a seeming presence of man in one place, that it shall not bee discerned otherwise then the very same true presence & real substance which is really in another place, as also to fasten such dreams as were before mentioned, upon men, and ac∣cording to those dreams to cause the things dreamed, by the witness and testimony of other beholders, to bee brought to posse in so lively likeness and similitude, as can∣not bee discerned and discovered otherwise then the very same that they were in dream likewise believed.

From hence it doth also follow very necessarily, that what man soever shall undertake these supernatural jug∣lings, which are only possible in the power of Spirits, & of the Devil alone, is thereby as truly convinced to bee a Witch or Sorcerer, as he that undertakes any of the former real supernatural works, or any other of the like kind, because they are both and all alike proper only to the devil, and wherein man can have no property or power but by and through him. Let vs now then again return unto the Devils real supernaturnall performances and works, unto Sorcerers, from whence by the way of answer unto the former doubt, concerning Pythagoras his supposed realty of being at once in two places, we have hitherto one∣lie digressed.

It is written as a thing usual unto many famous Magici∣ans, Sorcerers and Witches, unto the view and sight of some admitted spectators, to raise resemblances of the dead, which seems a thing undoubted by the Witch of Endor,


raising Samuel the Prophet unto Saul the King before men∣tioned.
In this kind those famous and renowned Witches Me∣dea and Circa in old and ancient times are reported to ex∣cell. Hence among the Heathen had Necromancy the rea∣son of the name and 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 which is divination by calling up, or raising the dead.

Later times have not been behind former times in the record of the like: but to add reason to enforce the truth of report herein; I will answer an objection which may bee made. Whether in these apparitions there be only illusion and imagination; of some thing truly and really visible unto the outward sense.

As touching the real raising of the dead, it is impossible unto the limited power of the Devil, either in the substance of body or soul, to reduce or bring the dead back into this world, or life, or sense again; because in death, by the un∣changeable, and unalterable decree of God in his holy Writ, the body returns into dust from whence it came, and the Soul to God who gave it.

Notwithstanding, since the outward shape and figure, and proportion of any substance, and not the substance it self, or creature, is the true and natural object of the eye, ac∣cording to the Philosopher, who truly saith, Res non viden∣tur, sed rerum species; that is, the substances or things themselves are not offered, nor come unto the sight, but on∣lie their shape, and outward figure, as also for that com∣mon sense and experience doe teach vs, that it is a thing ab∣surd, and impossible, that all those bodies and substances, which in infinite number wee daily see, and behold really and materially in their corporal substances, and dimensions, should be contained in the small body of the eye: for these causes (I say) it is possible according to reason, that the Devil in these supposed apparitions of the bodies and sub∣stances of dead men, may present true, real, and natural objects, certain and assured unto the eye and sight, if he can only present thereto the outward lively pourtraitures,



and shapes of the substances or bodies, though the bodies themselves be away. That the Devil can doe this, is no doubt. For if man by Art can usually divide the outward shapes, and figures of creatures and substances, from the substances and creatures themselves (as is apparent by the looking glass) and the cunning Painter can in ano∣there borrowed substance, separated from their true, right and proper substance, represent perfectly the true and live∣lie shape of men, & other creatures, even when they are not only absent, and removed in far distant places, but when oft-times they have many years been swallowed of the grave; why should it be thought impossible unto the Devil (who certainly is more then exquisite Apelles excellent) to offer and present unto the eye likewise any true shape what∣soever?
If he can offer the true shape (as is not to be doubted) he doth offer a true and perfect object; and therefore that which is truly and certainly manifest to sense, although speech and the motion thereof, without another visible by∣die to sustain it (being impossible unto shapes and pour∣traitures drawn by men) be things supernatural, and true∣lie spiritual, which doe therefore make it a work proper unto the Devil.

And thus it is apparent, that the supposed apparitions which the Devil doth offer of dead men, may be esteemed and reckoned among such supernatural works of devils and Sorcerers, as manifestly are brought to outward sense.

Now let vs turn to view some other kinds of the same works of the same Authors.

It is reported by some Writers of worthy credit, that the bodies of Sorcerers & Witches have bin really carried, and locally removed from on place into another by the devil.

And of later times (as Bartholomaeus de Spine doth wit∣ness) the inquisitions have condemned unto perpetual prison, and their detained Witches, who by their own con∣fession, and others proof, have by the Devil been trance∣ported into so far distant places, in few hours, that after∣ward

it hath bin a travel of many days, by their own na∣turall power to return again from whence they were ma∣nifestly by the devil carried.
It is a thing likewise written and vulgarly received, that Witches are oft-times seen bodily to haunt places, fields, houses, graves, and sepulchers, in an unusual and miracu∣lous manner and wondered fashion. These things, and infi∣night more, whether true or no, cannot be known, but to him that doth himself behold, and can from his own sight avouch them really true, and not imaginary. To perform some manner of asportation, and local translation of the bodies of Witches and Sorcerers, it seems in reason a thing whereunto the Devil is not unable.

First, for that it appears within the power of a Spirit, by the history of the Prophet Habacuc, whom the Angel carried by the hair of the head, out of Iudea into Babylon. The natural faculties and properties of a Spirit, given in their creation, and by their essential forms united unto them, the Devil doth participate with all other Spirits whatsoever, though in his fall from heaven, he lost their true happiness and perfect fruition in the face and favour of God his Creator.

Secondly, for that there are undoubted examples in holy Scripture, of the devils power in the local translation, not only of bodies inanimate: as fire, winds, tempests, houses (as is apparent in the history of Iob) and of animate bodies also, or bodies of brute creatures (as is evident in the herds of swine which he carried headlong into the Sea) but likewise of the bodies of men, as is clear in the Gospel, where it is said, that the Devil did cast the bodies of the possessed into the midst of the people. If the Devil could cast, or carry their bodies the distance there expressed (whatsoever or how little so ever it was) it doth manifestly prove his power, in the local motion of men's bodies, al∣though the full extent of his power therein be not necessary∣lie thence collected.

Concerning the taking the body of our Saviour, and set∣ting



it upon a pinnacle of the Temple, I will not urge, but do conclude upon my former reasons sufficiently and necessary∣lie, that the Devil, where God himself doth not counter∣maund, or prohibit him, hath power to dispose and trance∣port our natural bodies. I will not cite a multitude of Au∣thors herein, and from them borrow needless examples. As some may bee true, so I doe not believe all, and very few I wish trusted, where the proof doth not manifestly exceed all exception.
I conclude, that it is possible, that sometimes the super∣natural power of the Devil in this kind, as in other before mentioned, may appear unto outward sense manifest, and the Witch or Sorcerer be found a voluntary with him. And as is said of this kind, so may be said of many more besides those before mentioned.

[24]Concerning the manifest supernatural works done by Charmers, who is ignorant? To omit the histories of Me∣dea and Circa those old famous Hags, who were seen by charms immediately to cause grain to wither upon the ground; the current of waters to stand still; the stream to run back against the course, tempests, rain, thunder, winds to rise and fall at their word and command, for an assured testimony of the true and real harms, which Char∣mers manifestly unto outward view and sense did unto the ancient world, is as yet extant so many hundreds of years, the Law of the twelve Roman Tables, wherein was a De∣cry and Statute made to prevent and restrain the manifest wrongs and injuries of Charmers. Alienas Segetes no insane∣tato, saith the Law, Alienas Segetes in cantando no pellexeris, that is, Let no man charm his neighbours grain. Let no man by charms and incantations carry away or transport another grain. There are many other true reports and records of other wonderful works and supernatural feats, all alike offered unto the outward sense: There enumeration or citation is not further needful. It is sufficient whatso∣ever or how many soever they be, that they are works su∣pernaturall, that they are manifest to sense, that they are of



the Devil, and that the Witch or Sorcerer doth manifest his guilt therein, by voluntary presenting himself therein, by manifest undertaking any part or office in the perfor∣mance or by promising, and according to promise causing to come to posse. The reason is infallible. He that doth un∣dertake voluntarily, doth present himself and doth promise and according to promise, cause to be performed that which is in another power, and impossible unto himself, doth thereby necessarily and vnanswerably prove himself to have an interest, a power, a contract with that other, which for any may to have with the Devil, is society with Devils, which is Witch-craft and Sorcery.
And thus hath been declared, how the supernatuall works of the Devil and Sorcerers may be manifest to the outward sense, and the true testimony thereof.

An objection here may be made, that many of the former works may seem manifest to the sense, which indeed and truth are deceits of the imagination and illusion, and there∣fore there can be no such certainty unto the outward sense. It is truly  answered, He that wants so much true judgment, as to distinguish when he doth see a certain true object offered unto his sight from without, and when he is encountered only with a resemblance thereof from within his fancy and imagination, is diseased in body or mind, or both, and therefore is no competent Judge or wit∣ness in these or any other weighty affairs. For that is in health of body, and in the outward organes and instru∣mints of sense, and sound in his reason, judgment, and un∣derstanding, though sometime the fog and mist of de∣ceiued sense, or fancy, overshadow the brightness of true and vndeceiued reason for a short time in him yet it cannot so perpetually eclipse it, but it will recover his light and true splendour again, and truth will shine more excellently in the end out of that darkness. This is very lively seen in the example of S. Peter. Acts 12. verse 10.12. who at first did think he had only seen the Angel which God sent unto him to deliver him out of bonds, in a dream or vision: but



when afterword he was come to himself, and his true sense and reason, he then perfectly discerned and knew that he was really delivered out of prison by an Angel of God.
If men could not certainly discern between that which they doe really see, and that they falsely imagine in visions, dreams and fancy, then were the life of man most miserable, there could be no certainty of truth, no excelling in knowledge or understanding. All men should be a like un∣able to distinguish, whether we live in dreams only, or in wakeful deed. But the certain knowledge which God hath given unto mankind in so infinite kinds and measures, doth prove the eminence of reason and understanding a∣above the entanglements and depression of sense and fancy.

There remains as yet another doubt, which is, how those things which before were mentioned to be spiritual and supernatural can be subject in reason unto outward sense or be known thereby, howsoever by the former ex∣amples, it doth so seem. It is true that a Spirit and a Spy∣ritual work simply in it self in the own nature and sub∣stance, cannot be seen by any bodily eyes, or be deprehen∣ded by any outward sense.

Notwithstanding, as they doe mix themselves with by∣deli  substances, which are subject to sense, by accident Spirits, and spiritual operations, are certainly tried and discovered even unto sense. For how is it possible that a Spirit should mix it self in corporal things, but the dis∣crepant nature thereof, and mighty difference, must pro∣duce and beget some great apparent alteration, which alto∣ration being beyond the wonted nature of the one, doth prove another superior nature in the other? For illu∣stration hereof, let vs borrow an instance from one of the forenamed manifest Sorceries. Water is turned into blood by a Spiritual power. The eye doth manifestly see the water, and as apparently after see the blood, and is a true and vndeceiued witness of both. Reason and common sense doe know the transmutation to proceed from an in∣uisible power, which appearing in visible bodies, is by them



apart seen, and doth detect an invisible Author, because an immediate effect manifested to sense, doth necessarily in nature prove the immediate cause, though hidden and unknown to sense. That invisible and spiritual things may, by those things which are visible and bodily, be con∣ceiued and discerned, the holy Scripture doth witness in these words of Saint Paul, Rome. 1.20 The invisible things of God (saith he) are seen by the visible things, or by his works in the creation of the world, which are visible.
It may be here demanded, since it is the property of the Devil, in his seeming miraculous contriuements and act∣once (though a limited and finite object creature of God) yet to endeavour to counterfeit and imitate the most high and mightiest works of wonder of the infinite Creator, thereby to magnify, deify, and equal himself unto God in vnbeleeuing and seduced hearts: Since, I say, this is his property, how shall the frail understanding and capacity of man distinguish the marvels of the devil, so lively re∣sembled thereto, from the true miracles, and truly miracu∣lous works of God, that thereby with more facility, and less confusion, industrious minds may discover the pro∣per works and acts of the Devil, and his associates, En∣chanters, Witches, and Sorcerers? First, the true mira∣cles of God being transcendent above all created power, and the immediate effects only of a creating virtue, Al∣mighty God for his sole good will and pleasure doth usual∣lie and ever dispense by the hands and through the admini∣stration of holy men, Prophets and Apostles manifestly called of God. Secondly, the end and scope of Gods mira∣cles, directly and mainly aim and are bent at the glory of God, and the benefit of his people, not unto any private end, any particular vain end, tending to satisfaction of private lusts and curiosity.

For this cause the holy Apostles used the gift of miracles not unto any other ends, then unto the confirmation of that holy Gospel, which they preached and published from God, neither did they therein ascribe ought unto their own



praise or glory, but solely unto the praise and glory of God, and the good of his Church.
That this was their true end, and ought to be the scope and end of all that receive the power of miracles from God, Saint Paul doth witness and teach, 1. Cor. chap. 12. verse 4, 5, 6, 7. Now there are (saith he) diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit: and there are diversities of admini∣strations, but the same Lord: and there are diversities of operations, but God is the same which works all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal.

It is from hence manifest, that if any miracles proceed from God as Author, they are dispensed by men, sanctify∣ed by God, and who can and are able to prove and justify their warrant from God: as also that these men of God doe solely profess and bend them unto the glory of God, and the weal of his Church. This then is the square and infallible rule by which all miracles doe stand or fall, and are approved either to be of God, or convinced to be of Devils.

Let vs then conclude this point, with that excellent and divine saying of Theophilact, upon the 9. chap. of S. Luke. Praedicatio miraculis & miracula praedicatione sanciuntur. Multi enim saepe miracula ediderunt per Daemones, sed eorum doctrine non erat sana, quamobrem eorum miracula non extite∣runt a Deo. That is, the word of God doth establish and confirm the truth of miracles, and miracles ratify and confirm the authority and truth of the word. For many have done miracles by the power of the Devil, but their doctrine was corrupt and not found; and therefore their miracles were not of God. Wheresoever therefore mira∣cles or supernatural works shall dare to show their heads, not contained within those limits or compass, that is nei∣there proved immediately from God himself, nor medi∣italy by him revealed in his writ & word of truth, they are justly to be suspected to issue from the enemies of God; the Devil, and evil Spirits, and therefore their Authors ought



to be accountant therein unto Justice, and all religious Ministers and servants of God and Justice, in the most strict and severe extent of Law. And thus much concerning the manifestation of the supernatural works of Witches and Sorcerers, unto or through the outward Sense.

CHAP. VII. The works of the Devil or Witches manifest to Reason, or consequence of Reason, and how detected.
ALl doubts being cleared, it hath undoubtedly appea∣red how supernatural and spiritual works are appa∣rent to sense. It now follows to declare, how likewise they are evident to Reason, or necessary to consequence of Reason.

Those things are said to be proper objects of Reason and understanding: which, being remote from the emma∣diate view or notice of the outward senses, are grounded upon universal and intellectual known positions, propo∣sitions, and certain undoubted general notions, by noses∣sary collections, or raciocinations. That we may build the foundation of this our Reason or Ratiocination upon the infallible truth of Gods holy Word which shall never be shaken: let vs for the detection of Witches and Sorcerers, by reason, and consequence of reason, syllogise directly and immediately from God himself.

Thus saith Almighty God, Isaiah chap. 8. verse. 19. And when they shall say unto you, Enquire of those that have a Spirit of Divination, and at the Soothsayers, which murmur and whisper, should not a people enquire of their God? Under this interrogative (should not a people inquire of their God?) is understood this affirmative; A people should enquire of no other Spirit, but of their God alone.

From this holy text and writ, reason doth assume and collect necessarily, and truly.



First, that many things are hidden from the knowledge of man, which are revealed unto the science and know∣ledge of Spirits. Otherwise neither would man ask or en∣quire of Spirits (as hath been usual in all ages) neither should God have occasion here to forbid the enquiring at Spirits. That the ignorance also of man in things known to Spirits, is the true, first and original motive or reason for enquiring at Spirits, is very plain by the words of King Saul, 1. Sam. 28.15. God is departed from me (saith he) unto the vision of Samuel, raised by the Devil, and answers me no more, neither by Prophets, neither by dreams: therefore have I called thee, that thou may tell me what I should doe.
Here is a manifest grant of knowledge in Spirits above men. Secondly, reason doth hence collect, that all Spirits that doe suffer themselves to be enquired at, are evil Spy∣ritz, and therefore Devils; because Almighty God hath here expressly forbidden the enquiring at any other Spy∣rit beside himself: and therefore good and holy Spirits will not, nor  can not disobey the commandment of God, nor countenance or assist men in so doing. Thirdly, reason doth necessarily hence conclude, that such men as are en∣quired at for revelations of things hidden from the skill and possibility of knowledge in man, are Sorcerers, Witches, and Soothsayers, if promising and performing according thereto really, and yet not warranted by God his word, nor assisted by nature.

The consequence and inference of this reason is just; for that to promise those things, or to undertake those things which are out of their own knowledge, and solely and pro∣perly in the knowledge of Spirits and Devils, doth mani∣festly prove in the performance, their interest, society, and contract with Spirits and Devils, which is Sorcery and Witch-craft.

It may bee here objected, that there are some men who affect to bee resorted unto, and to bee enquired at in things supposed hidden from the knowledge of man, and to be re∣putted


able unto such Revelations, though happily they pra∣ctise to deceive, under the colour of pretence, of such a∣bilitie.
It is justly hereto answered, that this their presumption ought to be severely enquired into, whether it doe taste of ought that is diabolical, of the Devil, or supernatural: and if nothing so doe, yet in this Grand cause of God him∣self, the religious jealousy of the prudent Magistrate, ought to punish their presumption, which dare affect to un∣dertake the name or note of a sin, so odious and oboe∣minable unto Almighty God. Let vs for better impressi∣on, again repeat and iterate those things which were col∣lected out of the propounded text.

First, that there is knowledge in Spirits of things hidden, and separated from the knowledge of man.

Secondly, that such Spirits as are enquired at, and doe reveal such knowledge unto man, are Devils.

Thirdly, that men which doe practise to be enquired at for such supposed Revelations, ought not only to be justly suspected, and inquired into, but that if they be found there∣withal, to know and reveal those things, which are indeed and really above and beyond the knowledge of man, and are properly and only in the power of Spirits; that then this doth infallibly prove their interest power, and socie∣tie with Devils, which is certain and assured Sorcery and Witch-craft.

And thus hath reason drawn a demonstration out of the book of God, of a certain Witch, and manifest Sorcerer. Let vs now exercise our selves in the consideration, exam∣nation, and trial of some particulars herein.

It is said of Apollonius, that he foretold the day, the hour of the day, the moment of the hour; wherein Cos∣cius Nerra the Emperor should die, long before the time and being in far distant places removed from him. It is reported of the same Apollonius, that being consulted by one who for that purpose came unto him, how he might grow rich, Apollonius appointed him to buy a certain



field or ground, and to be careful in tilling and plowing thereof, which after he had done a while, he found in the end a great treasure and so became rich. It is written of the same Apollonius also, He made known unto Titus Ve∣spatian, the time and manner of his death, enquiring it at his hands. These things with many other the like Ianus Iacobus Boissardus, relates in the life of Apollonius.
Who hath not heard of the name and mention of that famous and renowned British Wizard Marlin, and of his high and great esteem among Princes for his prophesies? Unto his fore-sight and predictions, from many foregoing ages, the successes and events of divers Princes affairs, in their several reigns, have been usually by divers times and histories referred.

For this cause Master Camden, in the description of Caermarden-shire, doth term him the Tages of the Britons.

Speed in his tractate of the ancient Inhabitants of great Briton; as also of the life of Aurelius, Ambrosius, and of the reign of King John, and of Henry the fourth, doth our of Malmesbury, and others, recite divers accidents and events, in several succeeding ages, unto his oraculous and miraculous illuminations, ascribed to have been foreseen, foretold, and known.

If there be truth in those Oracles, and ancient fore∣seeing Revelations, they doe necessarily infer the assi∣stance of a power, far superior unto all the power of man. Therefore whosoever doth find them true, must conclude their Author a Witch or Sorcerer. Neither hath the general reception, or opinion of Authors, been here∣from different, who have published him the son of an In∣cubus, or the son of a Witch, begotten by the Devil. As it is said of this ancient time-noted, and age-viewed Sorcerer; so may be testified of many other.

What shall we judge of that infamous woman, among the French, called Join of Arc, by others Join Pucell de Dieu? Iohn de Serres, the French Historian, doth report that she had many miraculous Revelations, whereof the



King (then Charles the seventh) and all his Army and men of war, were open wondering witnesses, and in those re∣uelations for the most part, there was found no less won∣dross truth, then true wonder, as saith Serres, although some others have judged her an Imposteresse only. By her sole encouragement, and stout assurance of success, built upon miraculous revelations, the French prosperously in∣countred the victorious English in France, at several times, and against all humane reason, recovered their in reason∣unrecoverable, and most desperate standing, even near un∣to the pit of utter downfall, with more then unspeakable amazement and terror, unto the suddenly confounded English.
Notwithstanding, at length she was taken prisoner by the English, executed and burnt for her Witch-craft. What shall wee say or judge of other the like Authors, and broachers of supernatural revelations, and predictions in other times? The fore-mentioned Historian reports, that a Wizard foretold Duke Biron of his death, and that he should dye by the back blow of a Burguignon, who afterword proved his Executioner, being that Coun∣trey man.

Melancton our of Carrion doth recite the mention of a woman, of the order of the Druids among the Tungri, who foretold Dioclesian that he should bee Emperor of Rome, when he had first killed a Boar, which proved afterword one Apor, then an Usurper, which in the Latin tongue sig∣nifieth a Boar.

Suctonius writes of a Diuinour, who long before was able to make known the death, and the manner of the death, and murder of Iulius Caesar.

Philippe de Commines, in his 8. book, chap. 19. doth make mention of one Friar Hierome, and of his many admirable revelations and predictions, concerning the af∣fairs of the King of France, which as from Friars own mouth, he himself did oft hear, so with his own eyes he did witness and behold their issue true. It was di∣sputed,



whether in these transcendent revelations the Friar were a  man of God or no, and it is doubtfully there concluded.
In these like revelations and prophecies, reason cannot deny, but must acknowledge the manifest impression and stamp, of more then humane Science or demonstration. If wee desire or affect more specially to view what our own Histories at home afford: who can deny him a Wi∣zard, or Witch, who as Master Speed and others testify, in the reign of Richard the Usurper foretold, that upon the same stone where he dash his spur, riding toward Boss∣worth field, he should dash his head in his return: which proved accordingly true, when being slain in battle, he was carried naked out of the field, and his head hanging low by the horse side behind his bearer, did smite upon the same stone in repassage, where before in passage he had struck his heel and spur.

What can be deemed less of the Author of that prophe∣cie in Edward the fourth; that is, that  G. should murder King Edwards heirs, which G. understood of the Duke of Gloucester, was too true.

How can he likewise escape the just suspicion of the same foul crime, from whom originally or first was derived that prophecy or prediction in Henry the fifth, concerning his son, as yet then unborn, videlicet, that what Henry of Monmouth should win (which was Henry the fifth) Henry of Windsor should lose (which was Henry the sixth and his son) as it after came truly to posse? These things as I said before, doe necessarily infer a power far superior, unto the power of man, and therefore prove their volun∣tarry undertakers Witches, or Sorcerers. This doth Bins∣feldius in his Tract, de Malef. confessionis, confidently af∣firm in these words, Refer non possunt ad causas naturales, sed ad Daemonas hi effectus, nempe response dare de occul∣it is ferri, per verem, per loca remotissima. That is, these things can have no relation unto natural causes, namely, to give answer unto things hidden from man, to fly in the ayre,



and the like, but are to be attributed unto the power of the Devil, or Devils.
But here may bee objected, that since it is said by God himself, that no man ought to ask of any other Spirit, but of God alone, things hidden and unrevealed to men, Isa. 8. verse 19. before alleged; and since for that cause it is not to be doubted, that many things may be revealed by God unto men, for this cause and reason (I say) it may be deemed and objected, that some of the former revelations and prophecies may bee free from the imputation of Witch-craft, and Sorcery.

It is vnanswerably answered to this objection: First, that all the revelations and prophecies which are of God, are ever published by Prophets, & men of God, immediate∣lie called by God himself, unto those functions and places. Secondly, those vessels, and servants of God, which are the publishers of Gods revelations or pophecies, doe ever a∣uouch, and openly profess God himself, to bee Author thereof, from whom they only claim, and openly pro∣claim their immediate, and express warrant and Com∣mission, as appears by all the prefixions of their prophe∣cies: Thus saith the Lord, The Word of the Lord, The burden of the Lord, The revelation of Iesus Christ, and the like. Thirdly, the revelations and prophecies, which are thus derived and sent from God, carry in themselves some manifest stamp of their authority, and power from God, in some fruits or effects correspondent, and answerable to the nature, will, and pleasure of God, and are directly and originally bent, and intended unto the glory of God, and the public weal, and good of his Church, and people.

By these notes, and infallible marks of Gods holy pro∣phecies and revelations, may bee evidently discerned a clear difference, and distinction thereof from devilish predictions, and Sorceress Prognostications, which there∣fore cannot shroud, or hide themselves under colour or pretense thereof, being duly and rightly expended.

It may bee yet further objected, that some learned and



truly religious servants of God (though no public Mi∣nisters, of Prophetical functions or callings) have had sometimes their special revelations of some particular things, in which it were not only manifestly injurious, but plainly & extremely ridiculous to account them Witches. It is true, and cannot be denied, that Almighty God some∣times, by dreams, sometimes by secret prodigies, doth admonish some his private servants, good and holy men, of some things to come, for their own private and retired reformation, information or better preparation; not for profane or trifling ends, or uses, but that any prophecies or revelations, can be of God, that are obscurely whispered, or cast abroad for such uses, by any unwarranted or pro∣phone Authors, without any manifest warrant, Comes∣zion or authority from God, in the upright judgment of all men, that truly worship and fear the true God, the God of hostess, is much irreligion, and profane creduli∣tie to avouch, or affirm. Nay, it is altogether contrary and contradictory, and therefore impossible to God his miraculous revelations, visions and prophecies, ordinarily, or commonly to serve, or waite upon the ordinary ends, or uses of private men, since all true miracles, and miraculous revelations are ever in their proper nature, and true end, solely attendant upon God his immediate command and Word, unto his extraordinary works. To make it there∣fore ordinary, or a thing common, or of customary pra∣ctice, to foretell or give prediction of things to come, must necessarily proceed from the Devil, since the gift of true prophecy, and the Spirit of true revelation, is not subjected to the common or usual intentions of men; neither can profit or commodity, or sale bee made thereof by men at their pleasure, as is not unwonted with all the disciples of Simon Magus, Sorcerers and Witches, in their markets and fa•res made of their prophecies and revelations.
If then these whispered revelations cannot bee of God, then are they necessarily of the Devil. If they proceed from the Devil, then by an inevitable conclusion, those



men are his instruments or organs, by whom or through whom they originally flow, or are derived unto men and published. It may be yet further objected, that in men pos∣sessed by the Devil, as were those men in the Gospel, whose bodies the Devil did really rend and tear (in whom he did roar and cry out) whom he cast into the midst of the people. It may be (I say) objected, that in those pos∣sessed and the like, there may be revealed many things hid∣den from men, without the imputation or just opinion of Witch-craft or Sorcery in them.
That this may bee, is manifest in the Gospel, where the Devil in the possessed uttered words of knowledge then hidden from men, but by extraordinary revelation, when he acknowledged our Saviour to bee Iesus the Son of the living God. This could not in any possibi∣litie of mans reason bee known unto the possessed, be∣cause it was then but in part revealed unto the Disciples themselves, who were as yet but learners themselves and Scholars of that Divinity; neither had the natural man, or the world as yet so much as tasted, or savoured any notice thereof.

The like may bee objected concerning those that are obsessed. I call them obsessed, in whose bodies outwardly appearing no extraordinary signs or tokens of the Di∣uels corporal precedence, or  residence in them (as was in the possessed manifest) yet are their minds, vnderstan∣ding, wills, and reason palpably observed to bee besieged, captived and enchanted, by an extraordinary and more then natural, or rather an infernal invasion of the Devils illusions, for the magnifying and advancing whereof, the Devil doth oft-times mix and temper them with some rare and wonderful revelations, by or through the obsessed delivered.

From these objections both concerning the possessed, and also the obsessed, doth issue a necessary sequel, that prophecies and revelations are not always inseparable testimonies of a Witch.



It is truly hereto answered, that solely and simply re∣uelations are not sufficient evidences, or conuictions of a Witch, or Sorcerer, but with difference and distinction.
Supernatural revelations vnrequiredly transfused and transferred by the Devil, doe not prove the persons in whom they are found, to bee their own free or desirous Agents in consent therein, but rather properly and truly the Devils Patients, and therefore it cannot be their guilt, but his intrusion, usurpation, and insidiation: but super∣natural revelations, in which any man shall knowingly, and delibrately consult with, or inquire at a known Spirit, and enjoying the free liberty of his will, not depraved or corrupted by illusions or diseases, shall with consent or al∣lowance thereof entertain, commerce conference or as∣sistance of Spirits unto that purpose: such revelations (I say) wheresoever truly and duly detected, doe demon∣stratiuely and infallibly point on a Witch or Sorcerer, by what way soever he doe practise with the Devil, whether by conjuration, spells, or other Magic rites, or by vulgar trading with him, by familiar speech and express contract, as is most usual with vulgar and unlearned Witches. It is not the different manner of contracting, or covenanting with the Devil, that makes a new or a different species of a Witch, for by what name soever, in what manner so∣ever, any man doth contract with the Devil, he is a Witch or Sorcerer, saith Binsfeldius, and inuocateth the Devil.

Although therefore the possessed, or obsessed, are justly acquit in their revelations and prophecies, because trance∣meted or sent vnrequired, and vnknowingly unto them, yet cannot the Witch or Sorcerer bee any thing at all ad∣uantaged, or cleared in his revelations, which are ever de∣tected to bee both by him affected (as is proved by his mercenary sale thereof) and also are fore-thought and premeditate, as is evident by his promised and covenanted undertaking thereof, according to conditions or agree∣meant.




That we may make this point yet more clear, let vs yet farther examine, and consider what Witch-craft is. These are the express words of Binsfeldius a Papist Divine, in his tract de Confessionibus Sagarum & Veneficorum. Vt fiat maleficium haec tria concurrent necesse est inquit, Deus per∣mittens, secundo Diaboli potestas, tertio hominis malefici vo∣luntas libere consentiens. That is, unto Witch-craft three things necessarily concur: first God permitting: secondly the Devil working: thirdly, man thereto consenting or yielding his free-will. Unto the very same purpose, saith a learned Protestant Divine our countryman, Perkins in his description of Witch-craft, including the work or as∣sistance of the Devil, the permission of God, and a wicked art freely practised by man, and chap. 5. of his discourse of Witch-craft, he pronounces also him a Witch, whosoever∣ever wittingly or willingly consents to use the aide or assistance of the Devil, in the working of wonders above the ordinary course of nature. I name these two Divines only, because in this particular they seem to me to have best satisfied, and by the common consent both of Papist, and Protestant Divines, the truth doth more vncontro∣uersedly appear Catholic and firm, most other learned men that I have seen on both parts, having generally or for the most part comparatiuely been defective. Scaliger in his book de Sabtilitate, consents with them both, exer∣cit. 347. where speaking of the impossibility, of one man hurting another merely by bare words, he hath these words.
There is a greater power then words saith he, namely, the Devil doth the mischief upon the uttering of such words; and the foolish sottish man, that pronounces or utters them, supposes that by virtue of his words it is done. Ipse igitur agit Daemon (inquit) stultus & visors pu∣tat suis se verbis agere; unto the same effect are the words of S. Augustine, by Magic Art saith he, miracles and things above nature are brought to posse, Miracula Magi∣cis artibus fiunt. lib. 3. de Trinitate. The word Magic



doth insinuate, or employ, or include both a Devil, and a supernatural effect or miracle, as in the former words of Scaliger, also the supernatural effect and consequent of mumbling, argued a power in them above the power of a mere voice, or speech, which therefore saith Scaliger, was the Devil. In both likewise, the will and consent of man was apparent. In the first, where S. Augustine calls Magic an Art, that employs a mans consent, for that Arts are willingly, and wittingly studied by man. In the second, where Scaliger in the mumbling of words of supernatural effect, affirms that the foolish man who uttered them, supposed those effects to proceed from his words; his vt∣tering therefore such words, with that expectance, proved his liking and consent unto such effects. And thus it is un∣doubtedly apparent, by these Authors in their descriptions of Magic, and Witch-craft, that necessarily by consent of reason, though not always in express words, is under∣stood and included, both something supernatural, and the will and consent of man thereto. And this may yet bee made apparent, by the words of the same Scaliger, Exercit. 327. Magi (inquit) suas affections violentias appellant: propterea quote verse suas supra eas, quae nature ordine fieri vi∣denture exercent. That is, Magicians term their works violencies, because they exercise violent force, or power, above the course or order of humane nature. The Magiti∣ans giving names unto their works, above humane power or nature, and boasting them as their own, doth prove their free will and consent. Those their works being su∣pernaturall, doe prove them to bee of the Devil, as the very usual understanding of the word Magician, whereby they are ordinarily termed, doth testify. And thus it is manifest. First, that in Witch-craft the effect or work done is supernatural, above the reach and power of man. Se∣condly, that in that work the Magician, or Witch, hath a willing interest.
And hence now is manifest also, what Witch-craft is, namely, a work or effect, above the nature or power of


man, wherein notwithstanding is the will, consent, and as∣sent of man. This no man can deny, the demonstration being so evident.
It now follows to enquire, how this Witch-craft shall bee detected, or discovered; Secondly, how shall mans free will, or consent therein be discovered. Unto the first, is easily answered, videlicet, the supernatural work or effect doth appear by it self, when it is manifest and ap∣parent above the nature, reach, and power of man, such as are divers effects and works formerly mentioned. Un∣to the second I answer, that mans free will, good will, con∣sent, assent, or allowance therein is discovered by the same true acts or means, whereby any man his consent or as∣sent is usually discovered, indicted, and arraigned in the case of Treason, Murder, Felony.

In case of Treason, Murder, Felony, consent is disco∣red in usual course and practise of the Law, either by some manifest act promoting or furthering those wicked intents, or by conniuence therein: by wilfully not seeing, or by si∣lence, or not revealing,

As therefore in those heinous crimes justly; so in this high Treason against God, and adherence unto his enemy the Devil, in like manner any man his wicked assent, con∣tent, or good liking, is to be traced and discovered by any act tending unto the promoting thereof, by his conniuing, willingly concealing, or silence: For as in case of Treason, Murder, Felony, whosoever permits or admits any of those crimes, whosoever only consents thereto, conniueth, keeps counsel, or conceals, is justly by the law held, judged, and condemned as a Traitor, Murderer, or Felon himself; So by the same equity and reason in high Treason against God (such as is Witch-craft and ad∣hearing unto the Devil his enemy) whosoever shall consent thereto, connive, or give allowance is certainly a Witch himself, and guilty of Witchcraft. This is the reason why all Writers, with one consent doe as well hold and con∣damn for Witchcraft the tacit contract as the express.



Wherein in express terms vocally any man couenanteth with the Devil, or contracteti•. A tacit contract is, when any man takes upon him to doe, that by natural causes, which causes are allowed no such effects in course of na∣ture, nor yet are allowed unto any such effects beside the course of nature; Either by God, his Word, or by the Ordinances of his Church. To this effect expressly saith Binsfeldius lib. de Confess. Malefic: & Sagarum: Tacitè (inquit) inuocatur Daemon quotes quis contendit illud, facere per causes naturales, quae nec virtute sua natural, neque ex Di∣vine, aut Ecclesiastica possunt illud facere. To the same pur∣pose saith Perkins cap. 5. of his discourse of Witch-craft, giving allowance, saith he, unto means not allowed by God makes a Witch. That there are such effects, the same Author doth instance in another place, in these words, Refer (inquit) non possunt ad causas naturales sed ad Daemonas hi effectus, ferri per aerem dare la de occultis; That is, these effects cannot be referred unto any natural causes, but unto the power of Devils, namely, to fly in the ayre, to reveal things hidden from man. For this cause also saith Perkins, Divining of things to come peremptory∣lie, conuinceth the Author a Witch.
To conclude therefore, whosoever takes upon him to doe these things, or the like, and cannot justify them done according unto the virtue or power of natural causes, or (if besides course of nature) cannot prove or warrant them to be of God, neither by his Word, nor Ordinance of his Church, that man is a Magician, a Witch, or Sorce∣rer. But here it is requisite, and fit that men doe di∣stinguish between things vnwarrantably done beside course of nature; and therefore necessarily to be tried and judged by those rules of Gods Word, and Church. And between those things, which are likewise vnwarran∣tably done, but are above the course of nature, yet are like∣wise to be tried by the same rules, and limits of Gods Word, and Church.

For as besides course of nature are many things, as Sa∣craments


rites, Ceremonies. Which are to have allowance of their being from the same limitations, or else are to be condemned. So there are things above nature as miracles, which also are to have their allowance, and approbation by the former rules.
It follows therefore necessarily from hence, that whatsoever supernatural effect, or above the power, or na∣ture of man doth happen, and is not warranted or allowed by God, his Word, or Church, that certainly is of the Di∣uell. If it be of the Devil, then whosoever doth allow, yield his good will, consent, or by any way or means, or art doth promote or further, it is a Witch, as he who in Treason, or Murder, conniueth or consents, is a Traitor or Murderer as is aforesaid. That a supernatural work, or an effect above nature, is to be held Diabolical, is not only proved by examination and trial of God, his Word, and Church, but reason it self doth also demonstrate it. Every supernatural effect, hath a supernatural cause. Every supernatural cause is God, or the Devil, there being no mean between, but one or the other. Good Angels or spirits doe work their supernatural effects also or a∣above nature, but those their supernatural works are al∣ways directed and commanded by God, and therefore are of God, and carry with them evidence immediate from God. All supernatural works that are of God, are war∣ranted from God. Therefore whatsoever supernatural work cannot be warranted of God, is of the Devil. When∣there it may be warranted to be of God, will appear easily by the former limitations and rules. If therefore a super∣natural work appear not to be of God, by the former li∣mitations, and examination; then is it certainly of the Di∣uell. By necessary consequence, therefore of reason it foal∣loweth, that whosoever unto any such effect or work, thus demonstratively discovered to be of the Devil, doth give any allowance or consent, though never so tacitly, or close∣lie, yea though ignorant of the quality or degree of the sin, yet in his rash and unadvised and inconsiderate yielding or



conniuing therein, he is guilty, accessory, and a very Witch himself, as is aforesaid in case of Treason, and the like grievous offences against a Prince or State. For the igno∣rance of the law excuses no man, yea and in this particu∣lar, So many fair directions by learned Writers given, doth leave men inexcusable, and makes ignorance wilful, and resolute, and excludes easy pardon. Neither can the most simple ignorance justify any man, although it may qualify the degree or grieuousnesse of punishment.
If this law seem strict and hard. Let men consider the greatness, and grieuousnesse of the sin, and the pernicious consequence thereof. Which justly doth urge, and impose the necessary; fearful rigour, and strictness of the law. The necessity and equity hereof is apparent in case of high Treason aforesaid against a Prince, or State, wherein usually they who are simply, or ignorantly drawn, or used, or are instruments in any sort, to further or pro∣mote the mischief, are as well liable unto the severe inqui∣sition, and terrible censure of the law, as are they who were the maine plotters and contrivers. Witchcraft is high Treason against God himself, a combining, and adhering unto his enemy the Devil, a desperate renouncing of God and all goodness, and a worship of Devils. In this abomi∣noble sin therefore, in any kind or sort, in any manner or action, to be friend, aide or convince is no less then high Treason against God also, wherein as well the accessory as the principal are both guilty. Whosoever therefore shall in matter of this high nature or danger, dare or hazard to doe any thing that may be questioned or justly suspected in that kind, or to tend thereto, cannot be by his ignorance excused.

Thus I objections doubts and impediments removed, let vs build a neuer-deceiuing, and inviolate conclusion concerning Witches, upon this neuer-failing nor shaken foundation: that is, all supernatural works revelations or prophecies whatsoever, that issue not either immediate∣lie, and manifestly from God himself, or from his Word



or Church allowed (the proof and touchstone whereof hath been before touched, and briefly declared) or from the Devil in the ignorant possessed or obsessed, or are not counterfeit and imposturous (which is likewise else-where in the due place considered) all other revelations or works (I say) whatsoever, not excepted nor included in one of these, are undoubtedly issuing from Witches and Sorcerers, and are certain and demonstrative proofs and evidences of Witch-craft and Sorcery, in whom they are originally first detected. And thus how Reason doth cull and draw forth a Witch or Sorcerer, hath evidently been cleared and declared.

CHAP. VIII. Of divers kinds and manners, wherein Sorcerers and Witches, receive knowledge from Spirits.
AS Almighty God hath out of the Text before men∣tioned, Isaiah 8. in general made evident, who is in∣fallibly a Witch or Sorcerer: so hath he in other places of Scripture manifested some of their several kinds, ac∣cording to the different shapes and forms, in which they doe enquire at Spirits for their knowledge and revelations.

This is apparent out of the 18. chap. of Deuteronomie, verse 10. Let none bee found amongst you that uses Witch-craft. What Witch-craft is, was before out of the Prophet Isaiah declared.

Now in this place doth follow the enumeration of some of the special or particular shapes in which they shroud themselves. Let none be found among you (saith the Pro∣phet) that uses Witch-craft: and immediately after doth add those particular forms in which they enquire: A re∣garder of times: a marker of the flying of fowls: a Char∣mer: a Sooth-sayer, or that asks counsel of the dead. As therefore before we proved, that the infallible true note of a Witch in general, and in common unto all Wit∣ches,


and Sorcerers, of what kind so ever, is to be enqui∣red at in things hidden from men (as is likewise by those words of Saul apparent, Sam. 1. chap. 28. verse 7. Seek me a woman that hath a familiar Spirit, that I may go to her and ask of her:) so here in this text are reckoned up some of their several shapes, by which in true and sound reason, and the due consequent thereof, we may consider and collect many other, though not here numbered, or men∣tioned.
For since the common and inseparable sign or mark of Witches is certainly made known to bee, the practise of revealing unto men that enquire those things which are hidden from men, and only revealed by Spirits: it follow∣eth by necessary consequent, that not only those which are here specially nominated, in that shape of marking of the flying of fowls, or of charming, or of raising the dead, but all other whatsoever, in what other shape so ever that is, hath, or can be devised, that shall be found to practise or undertake to be enquired at, and to give answer and reave∣lotion of things separated from the knowledge of man, and which God hath hidden from men, and therefore hath for∣bidden by Spirits to be made known to men; all such (I say) in what shape so ever, as well in these kinds here na∣med, are, according to the general note of a Witch, to be judged Witches and Sorcerers.

For as the holy Scripture hath nominated and pointed out unto vs some few kinds, as a light only unto all the rest: so may common experience by these bring others un∣to our view, and all ages have upon the records of time and History, left unto succeeding posterity, many shapes more of memorable and famous Witches, not only in these shapes and forms shrouded, which are here mentioned but in many other.

Besides those kinds therefore, which here the holy Scrip∣ture hath nominated, let vs take a short view of some o∣there, which are in other shapes found (since all are in their common kind and nature the same.) It is no strange thing,


that in the shape, and under the pretense of Astrology,[31] some men have hidden sorceress practise, and performing under the colour thereof such things as were only in the power of Spirits, have thereby clearly manifested, that they derived and borrowed them of Spirits. Saxo Gram∣maticus, in his history de rebus Danicis, doth make menti∣on of a sort of Wizards, who would undertake for gain, to foretell the certain state and constitution of weather to come so assuredly, that they would usually sell unto Mar∣chants prosperous and fortunate winds, when by adverse and opposite gales they were detained from their intended voyage.
This kind of Sorcerer may very rightly be referred un∣to that which in Deuter. 18. verse 10. is noted by a regar∣der of times, which perhaps may also not unaptly be un∣derstood a Magical Astrologer. His performance above the nature and power of his Art, of that which is only in the power of a Spirit, doth both detect the Devil to be chief Author of the works, and the other to be also guile∣tie to the work.

That the professors of Astrology have in former ages unto Astrology joined this devilish skill and custom; as also other kinds of Diabolical Divinations, plainly doth appear.

First, by the word of God, Daniel 2. verse 2. wherewith the Astrologers, the Caldeans, Magicians, Sorcerers and En∣chanters are conjoined.

Secondly, it doth appear by the Laws, which by the Roman Emperors were provided against them jointly together, with Caldeans, Magicians, and Soothsayers. The words of one ancient Law are, Nemo Aruspicem con∣sulat, aut Mathematicum, nemo Ariolum, Caldeum, Magum; that is, let it be enacted or ordered that no man ask coun∣sell of a South-sayer, a Mathematician, an Astrologer, a Caldean, a Magician.

Dion in the 27. book of History, doth make mention of Astrologers, who by devilish skill practised and used to



send the Devil to present  dreams unto men in their sleep; for which cause Tiberius the Emperor revenged himself upon such Astrologers, though otherwise him∣self a great friend and lover of Astrology. Sir Christopher Heydon in his defence of judicial Astrology, doth out of Osiander recite this distinction of Astrology:  Astrology pura quae nihil habit de Magia, that is, Astrology that is not mixed, nor intermeddles with Magic. Whereby is no∣cessarily concluded, that Astrology may be, and sometimes is impure and defiled with Magic and Sorcery. In other places of the same work, he makes a difference between Astrologers  simply, and such as with Astrology joined Magic. And out of Brentius he recites these words, Non negate Hierimias eam partem Astrology, quae sequitur manifestos nature rations; that is, the Prophet Ieremy doth not deny or condemn that part of Astrology, which is guided by manifest reason or cause in nature. Hereby then is vnauoidably concluded, that the Prophet of God condemns that part of Astrology, which exceeds cau∣ses and reason in nature, and that necessarily must needs be Sorcery and Magic. As it is not obscure, that some men under the colour of Astrology have practised Magic and Sorcery; so is it no less evident, that many others, under the pretense of advising and counselling in Physic. For curation or Prognostication of diseases, have likewise ex∣ercised the same devilish practise.
That this hath been no new upstart custom, the multi∣tude of diseases, which ancient times doe register to have been cured by enchanted Spells, and words, and Magic skill, doth plentifully witness. The most ancient father of all Physic and Physicians, the incomparable worthy founder of Method and Art, [a] Hippocrates, [b] Dioscorides, [c] Theophrastus, with other succeeding Ancients, doe gene∣rally all acknowledge the force and power of Magical curation. Galen in his younger time gave no credit there∣to, but in the more aged [d] experience of right observation he doth acknowledge it. I will not stuff this small Trea∣tise



with the particular citation of every Author. Later Physicians also of the best and most choice note, doe here∣in, with former ages consent and concur, and experience doth confirm truth in both.
Whosoever is acquainted with books and reading, shall every where meet a world of the wonders of cures, by words, by looks, by signs, by figures, by characters, and ceremonious rites. As what the practise of former ages hath been is manifest; so what our age and later time doth herein afford, is almost no where in this king∣dome obscure. The nearest unto that impudence, which herein this our time doth produce and set forth, is that history of a Germane Witch, reported in the Malleus Malificarum.

There was (as the Author of that work saith) sometime a Sorceress in Germany, who usually cured not only all that were bewitched, but all kind of diseased people, so far beyond all power or course of Art and Nature, and with such facility, that all use of the Art of Physic, or of Physicians was altogether (for a time) neglected and for∣saken; while people from all Countries, both near and remote, in such numbers and frequency resorted unto her, that the Governor of that Country imposing upon eve∣rye man one penny that resorted unto her, thereby raised himself a mighty treasure.

What others among the most ancient Author, that are not Physicians doe publish, concerning the power of in∣cantations in the curing of diseases is needless to write. He that hath read any few lines of old Homer, or of di∣uers other aged Poets, shall find plentiful record hereof. Herodotus is not silent herein. But to omit all their need∣less testimonies, Physicians of these last times, of the most eminent note and worth (whose pens are yet scarce dry) doe witness the truth hereof from their own knowledge, sight and experience. Above the rest, Fernelius de Abditis rerum causis, is worthy any mans pains or view.

Let vs now lastly see what may bee collected out of the



book of God, concerning the power of the Devil in cu∣ring diseases, from whom all these inferior Agents, Wit∣ches and Sorcerers doe derive their power and skill. If it bee in his power, where God doth permit, to induce dis∣eases, it must needs bee in his power to cease or calm dis∣eases; because both causing and curing, consist in the virtue and force of the same means. He therefore that knows how and by what cause the disease is induced, doth necessarily understand, that by the remouall of that cause it is cured, and according to that rule can equally, as well by remouall of that cause, cure, as by the inductee∣on of the cause bring sickness. For this reason it is a max∣ime in Physic infallible, that he is the most excellent Phy∣sician, who knows best the causes of diseases, and who upon the knowledge of their true causes doth found the right method of their curation.
That the Devil doth both know the causes of diseases, and also how by them to procure and produce diseases, is manifest by the History of Iob, upon whom he brought that grievous general botch and boil, over all his body, Iob chap. 2. verse 7. That he did this by the force of causes in nature, must needs bee evident. First, because he is a creature, and subject and limited by nature unto and with∣in her lists; and therefore is not able absolutely and simply without causes and means in nature, to produce any effects in nature, although our ignorance of his power and know∣ledge (because it so far excells our power or nature) doth call all his works justly supernatural. Secondly, for that boils and botches are known natural diseases; and therefore had natural causes, although happily unknown to any man, and beyond the nature of knowledge or skill in man.

These reasons of the Devils impossibility, to work those effects without nature, are thus yet more briefly and clearly made infallible. Of  nothing simply to produce any thing unto a true being and existence, is the sole and proper work of any infinite Creator, and impossible unto


any creature. Therefore the Devil being a creature, could not bring those diseases upon Job, but by created means preexisting in created nature, in which he is contained and limited. And thus much concerning that kind of Witch and Sorcerer, which is enquired at concerning the curing and issue of diseases, which we will conclude with this note, that all learned men of the best experience have observed; that in those cures by Witches and Sorcerers, the Devil hath never perfectly healed, but for a time; or else where he hath seemed most perfectly to cure, it hath been for a reservation of the body by him cured, unto a greater and further mischief in time to succeed. Besides, this kind of Witch, by means unknown to man, or by a superna∣turall virtue in known means, above and beyond their nature, undertaking to cure the sick, or to foretell the event and issues of diseases, there is also another kind which doth undertake to bee enquired at for extraordinary reave∣lotion of such diseased persons, as are bewitched or possessed by the Devil. This kind is not obscure, at this day swear∣ming in the Kingdom, whereof no man can bee ignorant,[40] who lusts to observe the uncontrolled liberty and license of open and ordinary resort in all places unto wise-men, and wise-women, so vulgarly termed for their reputed know∣ledge concerning such diseased persons as are supposed to be bewitched.
But it may bee objected, that many of these two last mentioned sorts are rather deceivers, and Impostors only, who by an opinion of this power, and not by any real power herein, doe deceive, seduce, and beguile the people. This cannot in some be denied: notwithstanding least im∣pious imposture bee still tolerated to bee a covert to hide the manifest devilish practise of Witches, under pretense thereof (whereby it shall ever continue in this shape nag∣lected or vnspied) I will both briefly give satisfaction how the one may bee distinguished from the other, and also declare how men ceasing to enquire at Devils and Witches, or Impostors, may learn to enquire of their



God alone, and by the light of nature and reason (which he hath given unto them) in his fear, with his allowance and approbation, more truly and certainly inform themselves.

CHAP. IX. Of Wizards and Impostors, how they differ from Witches.
HOw Witch-craft in divers kinds may, according to evidence of reason, be detected, hath been before made manifest. How imposture may be discovered (sense there is so good use and necessity of the distinction thereof, for the more perfect separating and setting a part of Witch-craft by it self) wee will likewise briefly make manifest.

 The Impostor is he who pretends truth, but intone∣death falsehood. For this cause sometimes under an holy pre∣tense, he makes God the [a] Author of his unholy prestige∣ation, and slanders God unto his face, sometimes to be reputed an [b] Angel of light, he makes himself a license to counterfeit the Devil. He proposes it his trade to seduce, and lives by lying. Sometimes in show and pollicitation he is a Witch but in the performance of the greater sin he is less just, and in the personate resemblance solely a Jug∣ler. For as the Witch performs that which in true, and infallible reason is transcendent and above nature; so the Impostor performs that which in false and fallible reason and opinion, only seems parallel.

Hence as Witches doe strange and supernatural works, and truly unto reason worthy of wonder; so the Impostor doth things void of accountable reason, in shadow, show, and seeming only supernatural, wondered and admired. And hence it comes to posse, that with vndiscerning minds, they are sometimes mistaken and confounded  on for another.

From hence it is also necessarily concluded, that as Witch-craft is discovered by a supernatural work above reason, whereto the Witches consent is accessory; so an Impostor is detected by a work void of accountable reason, but in a deceiving false Visar or show, wherewith the purpose and intention of the Deceiver or Impostor doth concur. As therefore the suspected Witch is tied to answer unto any just doubt, which may bee directly urged against his or her manifest voluntary action, that is proved supernatural: so is a truly doubted Impostor bound to give satisfaction, for such his ambiguous actions, as doe in likely reason appear fraudulent, vain, prestigious, juggling, cozening, or de∣ceiuing. And thus shall each appear in his own true shape apart. Of divers kinds of Witchcraft, I have before pro∣ducat examples.
I may here likewise very pertinently,[45] for further illustrate∣on, propose some examples of Imposture in general, that the odiousness of this foul sin may appear more foul, and the ugly face thereof may be more fully discovered.

Among multitude of examples, I will recite only some few, whereof some consist in lewd and guileful contrive∣meant of action, other in the bewitching power of false pro∣phecies, revelations, predictions, and prognostications.

Example Concerning the first, who can be ignorant of the imp∣os and infamous Impostures of Mahomet, who by guile∣full counterfeit miracles, and pretended angelical illumi∣nated works, first magnified and set up that heathenish  Empire, and Religion of the blasphemous Turks?

Example The History of Sebastian, the pretended Portugal King, as it is set forth by Iohn de Serres, according to Master Grimstones translation thereof (if he were a true Impostor indeed, and were not injuriously traduced, and blurred with undeserved reproach) is an incomparable example, a∣above and beyond many other. I will refer my Reader to the Author himself.

If we desire more near or domestic examples herein, behold, in the reign of Henry the seventh,  a boy of


mean parentage, through imposturous machinations op∣posed, set up and crowned King in Ireland, against that famous and renowned Prince Henry the seventh, putting him in great danger of his life and crown of England.
Example In the late reign of Queen Mary, there arose an Impo∣stor, stiling himself Edward the sixth. The danger of the progress of that Impostor (if it had prevailed) who knows not? The manifest wrongs, injuries, and impeach∣mints also from counterfeit prophecies, revelations, and predictions, issuing not only unto private men and families, but unto Kingdoms, Empires, and Common-weales, are infinite.

ExampleIulian, an Emperor of Rome, though otherwise a migh∣tie and learned Prince, and valiant soldier, by a prophecy of an Impostresse or seeming Pythonisse, promising his conquest, and triumph over the Kingdom of Persia, was thither hastened unto his deserved death, and the ven∣geance of God upon his infamous Apostasy.

Example It is reported by Iohn de Serres, the French Cronicler, that the power and force of some pretended revelations, and visions of a young Shepherd, in the reign of Charles the seventh King of France, was so prevalent, that it per∣swaded Pothon that great and famous French Captain, with the Marshall of France, to arm and encounter the then victorious English in the bowels of that Kingdom; by which unadvised attempt, the French were suppressed and taken by the English.

Example It is recorded by the same Author, that one Martha Brosier, counterfeiting the fits and passions of such as were possessed, in short time became so powerful in illusion, that she ministered much matter of wonder and amazement, not only unto private men, but unto the Kings Counsel, to Preachers in pulpits, yea unto the whole Parliament, until the counterfeit Devil enduring some punishment and re∣strained, forsook his pretended possession.

Example If wee require examples in our own country, behold, in the reign of Edward the fourth, his brother George



 Duke of Clarence, was hastened unto his untimely death, even by the allowance of his brother King, upon the fear of a vain and flying prophecy, that G. of King Edwards heirs should be the murderer.
In the time of Henry the eight, the holy Maid of KentExample by her seeming miraculous revelations, deceiving not one∣lie the common sort, but even divers learned and some men of the best rank, and prime note, stirred up in the King great jealousy, and fear of his Crown and safety, as by the records of her attainder doth appear, where∣in doth stand proved and sentenced her treason-some imposture of most dangerous consequent, if it had obtained equal issue.

In the same kings reign, the bewitching esteem, credit,Example and hope of force & virtue in counterfeit predictions, and pretended revelations, whet the ambitious heart of Ed∣ward  Lord Stafford, Duke of Buckingham, first into high Treason, and to reach at the Crown, and after from thence thrust him headlong or headless into his grave.

In the reign of Edward the sixth, there was a prophecy Example divulged from the mouth of some pretended Wizard; by which the conjuration of Kett, and those Norfolk Rebels, was hartned and encouraged to proceed in their rebellion and outrage, unto the great danger and damage of the Kingdom, and in the end unto their own destruction: That blind pretended prophecy, in the insidiation of vain and credulous minds, was somewhat like unto that ambi∣guous Oracle in the Poet.

Aio, te Aeacida Romanos vincere posse:
I say, the son of Oecus the Roman power shall quell.
This Oracle may on either side indifferently, either ac∣tiuely or passively bee understood. Like unto it was that prestigious prophecy, which the rebellious Norfolcians with their Kett trusted:



Hob, Dic, and Hic with clubs and clouted shoon,
Shall fill up Dussin-dale with slaughtered bodies soon.
The Rebels understanding this blind revelation, or pre∣diction, concerning the victory wherein they themselves should bee Agents and not Patients, (as afterword their own ruin did truly interpret it) and dreaming the filling up of the Dussin-dale to be intended of other men's dead bodies, and not their own, where thereby incited with furious courage, unto the hazard of the kingdom and their native Country, until their own mangled and slaughtered carcases became butchered spectacles, and bloody monu∣mints of such illusion and imposture.

Example How many other fearful and horrid treasons have bin built and grounded upon other the like prodigious impo∣stirs? To recite the damages and wrongs done unto pri∣uate men by imposture in manifold kinds, were infinite. What should wee mention Prior  Bolton of St. Barthol∣mews in London, who in the reign of Henry the eight, up∣on the impression of an universal World flood, grounded upon pretended miraculous predictions, ridiculously buil∣death himself an house or nest on the top of Harrow hill, to save himself from drowning?

What mighty terrors did the wicked imposturous pre∣dictions of strange events in the admirable year 88. strike into the common people or vulgars of England? from whence, what different distractions in many private men did bring forth, to relate, were just matter of profound laughter. What translations of dwellings, peregrinations into other Countries, exchange of inheritances for mo∣niece, and other ridiculous extravagant molitions did the approach of that year diversely prepare? I will not waste paper in any more  particular recitals: Our later age and time hath not been barren of many wicked and harmful fruits of imposturous prophecies, neither have they alto∣gether escaped the eye of Justice, nor the blur of infamy



written in their names and chronicled memory. And al∣though many impostures (because practised upon private and more obscure personages) are less known and publi∣shed, then such as are committed against Princes and States, and therefore are more remarkable in the eyes of all men, yet are they both equally in their natures pernicious. It were not now impertinent from the declaration of the mis∣chiefs of imposture in general, to descend unto some such in particular, as are practised under the lying pretense and false colour of a transcendent and Magic virtue. In ex∣amples of this kind,[52] Reignald Scott doth ouer-abound in his discovery. I have my self noted and known some men (I could say some men of the Clergy) who to draw wonder and custom unto their practise in Physic (where∣in Sacriligiously they spend their best and chief time and hours, with open neglect of God and his service.) I know some I say, who are not ashamed profanely and most irreligiously, to affect among vulgars, to gain the opinion of skill in Conjuration, Magic, and Diuell-charming.
By this imposturous Art or device many years toge∣there (not among men Religious, Orthodox, or judicious∣lie learned) but among vulgars, and sometimes also among some great and mighty men) they have become vnwor∣thily magnified Physicians, above other far more worcester∣thy, and performing sometimes, some things praise worcester∣thy (as is oft-times contingent unto the meanest practi∣sers) they still gain countenance, and time to rob God of the first fruits of their time, strength, and labours, and the Church of their more requisite maine study and im∣ployment. It is not unknown how common it is among these men, to profess the erecting of figures, the giving of answers as Wizards, the revealing of things hidden, as Magicians, unto the great dishonour of God, the shame of the Church, the Laws and Kingdom. How usual it is with many other Jugglers and Mountebanks, by the re∣putation of Witches imposturously to promise, and un∣dertake



miraculous curations, and Prognostications of diseases and their issues, is not unknown unto any com∣mon observer: wherein, for brevity sake, and to avoid confusion, and the crambe or iteration of the same things. I will refer the Reader to a former manual, called The discovery of Erroneous practises in Physic, where although, by reason of my absence beyond and beside the Errata, many errors both in some words and sense, doe still re∣maine; yet there are many things in this kind worthy notice. Read page 71. the Treatise of Wizards; likewise, in the second marginal note of the page 53. an History of a Surgeon, famous in curing such as were bewitched: Likewise page 109, 110.111. an History of imposture, under the colour and pretense of the inspection and judge∣ing of Urines: and likewise, page 60. and from thence un∣to the end of that whole Chapter. There is a very rare, but true, description of a Gentlewoman, about six years past, cured of divers kinds of convulsions, and other Apo∣plecktike, Epileptike, Cataleptike, and Paralytike fits, and other kinds of accidents of affinity therewith. After she was almost cured of those diseases, but the cure not fully accomplished, it was by a reputed Wizard whispered, and thereupon believed, that the Gentlewoman was merely bewitched, supposed Witches were accused. The Gentle∣woman hath been free from all those accidents there men∣tioned, the space of six years now past.
In this last past seventh year, since the writing of that history, some of the former fits are  critically again returned: the same Wizard or Deceiver resorted unto and enquired at, doth now again avouch her to bee be∣witched; upon opinion whereof and trust in his illusion, the timely use and benefit of due counsel hath been much o∣meted and neglected. Her diseases which formerly, far exceeded these which now are, in number, frequency and vehemence, were in shorter space cured, and so continued the space of six years together. These few which now doe return, due counsel and time neglected, though
being in number fewer, less intricate, and far less vio∣lent, have notwithstanding a far larger space of time continued.
If that Counsellor or vndertaker to counsel, be a Wiz∣zard in name and reputation only (as I doe guess and deem him) then is this History an incomparable example and instance of the wickedness, impiety and cruelty of im∣posture and Impostors. If he be found a Witch, then is it an vnanswerable evidence and instance of the Devils juggling, lying, illusion and deceiving, whereof we made mention and proof before in the question or doubt con∣corning Pythagoras realty in two places. For, in true rea∣son and judicious discerning, it is as clear as the brightest day, that no accident befalling the Gentlewoman mentio∣ned, can be other then natural, or farther supernatural, then either the Devils credit with a Witch, or an Impostors credit with deceived and seduced men is able to enchant persuasion unto vain affiance in them. I refer the Rea∣der to the consideration of the History at large, with that which here is added: I will only exhort all men not to be in those doubtful cases, too violent, nor rash in asking or believing unworthy or worthless counsel, but to ask it of such as are truly and godly learned and prudent, and not of Impostors or Seducers, considering that the consequence of rashness, mistaking error and igno∣rance; are no less then the life or death of the sick, a putting out of the eyes and light of reason, which God and Nature hath given man to walk withal in the dark pile∣grimage of this life; a deprivation of due remedies which God hath allowed (while beguiled with vain and foolish opinion, with wilful blindness, they worthily esteem not, nor will expect his grace and favour therein.

Assuredly, he that doth give up himself to become a prey to folly and illusion, and led by deceivers headlong into confused, vniustifiable, unwarranted and inhibited ex∣plorations and trials, doth forsake the guidance and use of right reason, and in stead thereof, is intemperately distra∣cted



with impatience of expectation of due respect and e∣steam of Gods ordinance and allowance in his ordinary means, may justly fear that God hath decreed and de∣termined, not only to despoil him of that common bless∣sing which he hath promised to all that duly seek, and rightly use his allowed means; but also that he leaves him unto the cursed path and way of perpetual blindness and hardness of heart therein, except his special and ex∣traordinary divine grace in time reduce his dangerous steps. For certainly he unto whose blinded eyes God doth offer so great mercy and favour, as is plainly evident in all his ordained ordinary means, unto every good that be∣falls man in this life, and with thankfulness cannot or will not behold it, when it is laid at his unthankful feet, is in a desperate way of a lethargicall disposition, or sense∣less memory and oblivion, both of his reason, and of him∣self, and of Gods merciful goodness towards him. And thus the ugliness of imposture both by the description thereof, and also by example doth appear, wherein may be first seen, how they that trust thereto, doe forsake God, themselves and their own common sense and reason, and give themselves to be swallowed up of lying and illusion. Secondly, in the whole course of imposture it self, is seen the continual practise of merciless impiety, the usual wrong of the afflicted, the belying of truth, the deceiving the miserable, the deprivation of the sick, of the use of due remedies and means which God hath made and bless∣sed unto men, that with praise unto his name, patience and due dependence upon his providence therein, can be con∣tented to seek and expect the likely and hopeful issue thereof, in usual course of nature. Lastly, may be collected, and observed, the use and necessity of distinction between Imposture and Witch-craft; namely, that the odious and abominable sin of Witch-craft be not suffered to conti∣nu, unregarded or neglected, under the colour of vain Imposture, and that the Devil be not suffered to live a∣amongst vs, too commonly, and too openly, in the coat

and habit of a foolish Impostor, or Juggler. For cer∣tainely nothing doth more hood-winke the through disco∣very of Sorcerers, then remissness and omission of in∣quisition, and castigation of Impostors, out of whose leaven (no doubt) but diligent animaduersion, might oft-times bolt out many a subtle and concealed Witch.

CHAP. X. How men may by reason and nature be satisfied, concerning such sick persons as are indeed and truly bewitched.
IT follows now, according to promise, briefly to point unto direction, how men leaving to inquire at Witches and Sorcerers, and Impostors, concerning the sick, supposed to be bewitched, may inquire and be better satis∣fied by the light of Reason; which God hath given unto them. Reason doth detect the sick to be afflicted by the immediate supernatural power of the Devil, two ways: The first way is, by such things as are subject and manifest unto the learned Physician only: the second is, by such things as are subject and manifest unto a vulgar view.

Those things which are manifest unto the Physician alone are of two sorts. The first is, when in the likeness and simi∣litude of a disease, the secret working of a supernatural power doth hide it self, having no cause or possbilitie of being in that kind or nature. The second is, when natural remedies or means according unto Art and due discretion applied, doe extraordinarily or miraculously either lose their manifest inevitable nature, use, and operation, or else produce effects and consequences, against or above their nature, the impossibility of either of these in usual or or∣denariate course of nature, doth certainly prove an infal∣libilitie of a superior nature, which assuredly therefore must needs be either Divine or Diabolical.

This conclusion concerning the infallibility of a super∣natural mover, from the like assumption, the learned and



worthy preserver of reverent antiquity, Master Camden, in his description of Cheshire, hath truly inferred upon the miraculous prelusions, and presages, ever and prepetually forerunning the death of the heirs of the house or family of the Briertons. These and such like things (saith he) are done either by the holy tuteler Angels of men, or else by Devils who by Gods permission mightily show their pow∣er in this inferior world.
Whenever therefore the Physician shall truly discover a manifest transcending power, manner, or motion in any supposed disease, there is an undoubted conclusion of the Author. Where likewise remedies find concomitances, or consequences contrary to their nature, or such as never were, nor ever can be contingent in course of nature: this assumption truly granted, doth inuincibly infer a tran∣scendent force and virtue therein never to be denied. The Demonstration hereof is evident. A proper cause is cer∣tainely known where is detected his proper effect. Ergo, where is effected ought supernatural, there is infallibly dis∣covered a supernatural cause.

Thus how diseases, and the wonderful accidents which oft happen in diseases, may be by the Physician detected, according unto the rule of reason, whether induced by the Devil or no, is briefly pointed at.

How the guilt of any man therein with the Devil (which doth only convince a Witch) may and ought appear, hath been before declared, and shall likewise hereafter be further made clear.

It will not now be immaterial or unprofitable, for con∣firmation, illustration, and better proof of those two ways, which are distinguished to be only subject, and ma∣nifest unto the Physician, in the detection of the secret works of Devils and Witches in diseases, to produce one or two examples of both.

Concerning the first, Fernelius in his 2. book De Abd. Rer. cansis, chap. 16. delivers a history of a young man of a noble family, who was by a violent convulsion in an extra∣ordinary



manner long time tormented. Divers learned Physicians remained long time doubting and unsatisfied, both in the cause of this disease, as also of the seat or place where the cause, with any sufficient reason, might be iud∣general settled.
Behold very pregnant inducements of the finger of the Devil, moving in the disease. One was the incredible ve∣locitie of motion in the diseased, impossible unto the force of man: the other was, for that in all the fits and convulsions, though very strong and vehement, his sense and understanding remained in the diseased, perfect and nothing obscured, or interrupted, which in convulsions according unto natural causes was never seen, and is im∣possible.

The force of these reasons to euince the precedence of the Devil, in the manner and motion of the fore-named disease, the Devil himself did shortly after justify, decla∣ring and professing himself the Author thereof in plainly expressed words.

In the fore-named book and chapter, there is another report or relation of a man suddenly surprised, with an ex∣traordinarie fashion, or shape of madness or frenzy, wherein he uttered and revealed things hidden, and of pro∣found Science and revelation, not only above the pitch and power of natural capacity, and the stimulation there∣of in diseases contingent, and the forgery of fained ecstasy, but really in true and upright judgment, and unpartial discerning of a Physician beyond all question and except∣on supernatuall. The sequel after made it good. These examples are sufficient unto men that are wise, and with whom reason hath authority. I doe not affect unadvised multiplication herein, suspecting many histories, and re∣ports of divers Authors.

The possibility of those which are here produced, be∣side the unstained credit of the Author, is overtly confer∣med by the holy Scripture, where, in the Lunatike the Di∣uell manifested himself by actions, only proper and ap∣propriate



unto the power of a Spirit: such was his casting the Lunatike into the fire, and into the water, his violent rending and tearing him, which were things by the Physi∣tion judiciously distinguished, in most part impossible unto the power and nature of the Lunatike himself, or of his disease alone, though not all.
The man possessed among the Gadarens, Matth. 8. Mark. 5. Luke 8. likewise doth establish the same, who was known and seen evidently by the Physician, how far simply or solely diseased, and how far possessed beyond diseased ecstasies by those undoubted works, and that fin∣ger of the Devil, when he easily brake in pieces those iron chains wherewith the Lunatike was bound: so that no force thereof whatsoever could hold or bind him; as also when he uttered and spake that more then humane under∣standing and revelation of Iesus Christ to be the Son of God: a knowledge as yet vncommunicated unto man∣kind, and unto reason impossible.

Concerning the second way of detection, subject unto the Physician alone, namely, when natural remedies aptly applied, are attended with supernatural consequences, contrary to their nature, or above the same, out of the for∣mer Author, and fore-named place, there is an example also without farther straggling of unquestioned estimate∣on. A certain man there mentioned, vehemently burning and thirsting, and by intolerable heate compelled to seek any mitigation, or extinction of his heate and thirst, in want of drink or other fitting liquor, happened to find an Apple, in the moisture and natural juice whereof, ho∣ping the usual short refreshing of the tongue, he, after the first tasting thereof, immediately found (not only that which was contrary to the nature of an Apple, greater burning and thirst th•n before) but had instantly his mouth and jaws so fast closed and sealed up thereby, that he hard∣lie escaped strangling.

The reasonable doubt of the latitation of the Devil, in this fair, harmless, and usual remedy of the tongues,



thirst and dryness, was afterword made more evident and ma∣nifest by the sudden and swift obsession of his mind, with frightful visions, whereof as in the disposition, temper, sub∣stance or quality of his brain or body, there was no ground or cause, so in the Apple it self, was no other pernicious mix∣ture, but that the Devil, as with Iudas Sop, though whole∣some and saving in it self, so in this medicinal fruit, entered and possessed, where God permitted. The like may be said of other both outward and inward remedies, which by a Ma∣gecko power are and may be oft interrupted, turned and bent unto a use contrary to their nature.
For this cause Hippocrates himself in his book de Sacro morbo, & de Nature muliebri, doth acknowledge many acci∣dents, as also diseases and remedies themselves to be divine, as having their cause and being above the course of nature. When therefore fitting unto any cause, matter, or humour in the body, according to true Art and Reason discovered, apt and fit remedies, are aptly and fitly by the judicious Physiti∣on applied, notwithstanding, contrary to the nature and custom of such remedies, they have unusual and justly won∣dered effects, is there not just matter of doubt concerning an unusual and extraordinary cause answereable thereto? The deep and mystical contingents in this kind, and their hid∣den reason and cause, the unlearned man, or he that is not ex∣ercised in difficult discoveries, cannot discern, nor can the intricate and perplexed implications therein, of doubts and ambiguites, possibly become intelligible in every ordinary apprehension; yet by the former easy and familiar example, every man may guess and conjecture at the most abstruse. The subtlety of the Devil doth easily deceive a vulgar thought, and in the clouds and mists of doubts and difficul∣ties beguiles usually the dim sight and disquisition.

The learned Physician, notwithstanding possessing true judgment and learning; who doth and can warily observe, and distinguish first the wonders of nature unknown unto every mediocrity of knowing: secondly, the true wonders a∣above nature in due collation with nature to be known, doth



not easily or rashly with vulgars, err or run mad in the confusion of vain and idle scruples. The wonders of nature, are such natural diseases as are seen in their wondered and admired shapes or mixture, to have a great likeness or de∣ceiuing identity with such maladies, as are inflicted by the Devil. The wonders above nature, are such diseases, as are truly and undoubtedly known and proved to have no consistence, or power of consistence, or cause in sublunary nature.
For illustration hereof, I will give one material instance fitting our present time, that shall overtly without exception manifest the distinction of both these kinds, therewith decla∣ring the great odds and difference between true know∣ledge and understanding in the learned Physician, and the a∣missed wonderments of vulgars and ignorant men.

There are vulgarly reported among our English vulgers to bee in the bodies of many Witches, certain marks or excrescences which are usually deemed the randevowe of the Devil, where by covenant he doth suck the blood of Witches. These excrescences are usually described to bear sometimes the shape of Warts and Teats, or some other such like tumours. They are most commonly found in the privy parts. They are found suddenly after their appea∣rance, sometimes to vanish. They doe oft bleed, and there∣fore are vulgarly deemed, the remaining dropping of the Devils sucking.

There are diseases likewise, like unto these by Physicians many hundredth of years published, & both by ancient Phy∣sitions and Surgeons, as also by those of later times oft cured. That this be not esteemed as a wonder, or a fable, I will produce some of their several shapes; described by se∣uerall Authors, and will cite them according to their usual names which are these, Thymion, Nymph, Cleitoris, Cercosis, Morum, Alhasce, Ficus, Mariscae.

Of the first thus saith Paulus Aegineta in his sixth book, and 71. chapter. It is an excrescence or eminence, standing out from the rest of the flesh, sometimes red, sometimes



white, for the most part without pain, the bigness of an Egyptian bean and of the colours of the flowers of Thyme. They are found, saith he, in the privy part of wo∣men, and are cured by cutting them away. Ioannes Hue∣chorus of the City of Beuois in France, sometimes one of the Kings counsel and Physician unto his person, in his second book concerning barrenness doth testify, that the former excrescence doth sometimes grow in some length, sometimes in the hands, sometimes in the feet, sometimes in the thighs, sometimes in the thighs, sometimes in the face, but saith that they are most troublesome in the privy parts both of man and woman.
Celsus saith in his first book chap. 28. that these excre∣scencies doe sometimes open and bleed, & send out blood. Thymion (inquit) facile finditur & cruentatur, nonnunquam aliquantum sanguines fundit. Antonius Muse upon the 26. Aph. of Hippocrates the third book testifies by his obe∣seruation in divers particulars, that the former disease or excrescence doth oft-times wear and vanish away without help or remedy.

The second disease or excrescence called Nymph, Paulus Aegineta, in his 6. book 8. chap. doth describe to be a swelling or growing out of a piece of flesh in the secret part of a woman rising oft-times unto an indecent fashion and a great bigness. Auicenne delivers the same de∣scription. Tom. 1. Fen. 21. Tract. 4. and Albucasis Chi∣rurg. Part. 2. Chap. 72, 73, 74.

The third excrescence called Cleitoris is little different from the former by the description of the same Authors. Auicen lib. 3. Fen. 28. Paulus Aegineta in the fore-mentio∣ned place.

The fourth excrescence called Cerrosis the same Author in the same place compares unto a long tail and saith, that it hangs down, and issues out of the part before mentioned in women, and is cured by being cut away.

The fifth excrescence called Morum hath that name from his likeness unto a Mulberry.


The sixth, called Alhasce, from his likeness unto a Bram∣ble leaf. Auicenne Tom. 1. lib. 3. Fen. 21. Tract. 4 cap. 20. As for the seventh and eight Excrescences, growing like∣wise as the rest about the secret parts, they have been so commonly in ancient times known, that Martial the Poet out of his own acquaintance with them, hath made sport thereof in witty verse.
Dicemus ficus quas scimus in arbor nasci,
Dicemus ficus Caeciliane tuos.
Of the Mariscae, thus also writes Iuvenal.

Coeduntur tumidae medico ridente, Mariscae.
Of these Mariscae thus saith Antonius Muse upon the Aph. 30. lib. 3. Wee call them, saith he, crests or combs, from their likeness unto the comb of a Cock, which saith he, if they bee not in time cut away, and cured by actual canteries, they are never cured at all. Thus much concer∣ning these diseases, out of learned Authors. Let vs now consider these natural diseases, which are called wonders in nature, (because not ordinarily or vulgarly seen) with those marks of Witches or diseases, and excrescences effected and caused by the Devil in Witches, which (there∣fore must needs be wonders above nature.) Let vs (I say) compare them together, the one which the other. Their exceeding near neighbour-hood and likeness, no com∣mon understanding, as they are described truly and lively, can choose but acknowledge. To confound or mistake the one for the other, is very easy, but yet dangerous and pernicious. I will not deny against due testimonies, and the free confessions of the Witches themselves, that such marks may bee by the Devil upon covenant made, in way or an hellish sacrament, between the Devil and the Witch: but where the confession of the Witch her self being free from just exception doth not appear, nor the Devil to any spectators, doth show himself in the act



of sucking, which he never doth (as my incredulous thoughts persuade myself) where I say, these appear not to be manifest without fraud, there it is requisite, and necessary, that either wee discharge the Devil, and acquit him of the slander, or else discover it by some other sign or note, which may justly be appropriated unto the Devil, that his finger or guilt hath been therein.
This is reason, without which ought bee no persuasion. Every tree is to be known by his own fruit, saith our Sa∣uiour. Therefore the devil, is to be known by the works, and fruits of a Devil, proper and belonging unto him. Try and discern the Spirits, (saith the Scripture) whether they be of God, or no. And how can they bee discerned, if there were not some notes, or properties known unto ho∣lie discerning minds, whereby they may be discerned. It is madness therefore, to suppose it possible to know that which is done by a Spirit, wherein is no evidence, impres∣zion, sign, show, or property of a Spirit. For as a natural cause cannot bee known, but by his natural effect; so is it impossible, that a spiritual cause should be known, but by some supernatural effect. For this cause, in all places of Scripture, where are set forth the outward works, or act∣once of the Devil, they doe there likewise all appear to be his, in some extraordinary & supernatural note or manner.

The casting the bodies of the possessed in the Gospel, into the midst of the people, was a thing extraordinary, impossible, and unusual unto the voluntary motion of men alone. The bringing of fire from Heaven to devour so many of Iobs sheep, was in the manner beyond the nature usual, and ordinary force, or custom of fire. The carriage of the herds of Swine headlong into the Sea, was mani∣festly beyond the nature of their natural motion, yea, a∣against their nature.

Here may be objected, that the Devil doth ordinarily work, and produce things of seeming wonder, and strange consequence, wherein notwithstanding, doth not appear any sign or impression, of any supernatural cause or au∣thour,


as is seen in many things produced in men, and issue∣ing from his usual tentations of men.
The answer is, that the Devil doth work upon man, two ways.

The first is, immediately by the temptings, and solici∣ting only of man unto works, which properly are affected by man himself, in the usual course and power of mans nature.

The second is, immediately by his own proper action, as he is a Spirit, and immediately works in himself, the work of a Spirit.

In the first, the Devil is not properly said to work in himself, but rather to give and offer occasion unto the disposition and affections of man, thereby exciting, and tempting man unto that work, which therefore only car∣rieth the stamp of a work, proper unto a man.

In the second, the Devil works immediately himself, as he is a Spirit, and in that work therefore must necessa∣rely likewise bee seen, and appear the stamp of a Spirit, since in the course and order of all things created whatso∣ever, the true and immediate cause, his immediate true and proper effect, is the sole true infallible stamp, eui∣dence, and proof thereof.

The works therefore, which are called or esteemed the Devils, in regard of his tentations, and incitations of man, unto foolish, wicked, and oft wondered mischievous act∣once, are only and truly called devilish, as proceeding from the Devils instigation only, but are not truly or properly, or immediately any works of the Devil, and therefore it is not requisite, that in such works of the Di∣uell, unproperly called his, there should appear any signs, proper unto the works of a Spirit or Devil.

Since then it is infallible, that there can bee no possible discovery of any cause whatsoever, natural, or superna∣turall, but by such accidents, effects, or properties as pro∣perly belong, or issue from that cause, and since proper effects appearing, doe only discover their causes more



clearly, where they appear more clear, and more obe∣scurely, where they doe appear more obscure, and nothing at all, where they appear not all: Since I say this is true, and never to be infringed, those supposed Witches marks, before they can justly and truly bee judged to bee by the Devil effected or used, must by some stamp or sign pro∣per to himself, or to his works, or to his use or proper∣tie therein, be so determined and convinced to be.
The wonder indeed of their strange shapes, form and manner, is sufficient to amaze such as are not judiciously read, or are unlearned: but the Physician who knows such diseases to bee in nature, by that knowledge of their nature, knowing likewise that they doe not exceed na∣ture, doth justly stand apart, and divide himself from the vulgar error and opinion, that they are any marks to be appropriate unto the Devil.

And hence appears the necessity of conuincing the forementioned Witches marks to bee supernatural, be∣fore upon their shape or appearance only, it can bee esteemed just, either to impute unto the Devil, or to call any man into question. Before they can bee truly judged or determined, whether supernatural or no, the necessity of consulting with the learned Physician, is likewise demon∣strated. Of which wee may yet again, give another de∣monstration within the same instance. It hath been some∣times by oath confirmed and deposed, that these foremen∣tioned marks of Witches, have (immediately after they have been seen) suddenly vanished to bee no more seen. The question may bee, whether their sudden disparence after their manifest appearance, bee in nature possible unto such like diseases or no. It is known unto the Physician, that many diseases doe insensibly grow, and insensibly also wear and vanish away, without any knowledge or notice thereof taken by the diseased. This therefore solely can bee no note of a supernatural mark, whatsoever passionate ignorants fondly dispute, to maintain their own wills and prejudicate resolutions. I doe grant, if



those material excrescences, doe in a moment vanish a∣way, without any precedent preparation, or alteration ten∣ding thereto, or doe in an instant appear, and in the same moment, without any mutation or proportion of time in∣stantly vanish, then must this bee granted supernatural: Quia nihil fit in momento, that is, no natural being hath de∣sinence or being, without proportined time, beyond which nothing can bee really or indeed in sublunary nature, when∣there there bee in the vanishing of the former marks, pro∣portion of time or no, and the due antecedent mutations, and alterations in nature requisite, who can truly judge, but he who doth both know the general course of na∣ture in all things, and also the particular course, in the na∣ture of diseases, which is the learned Physician alone. It may bee objected, that many common men in the former marks, may as easily see and discern that which is super∣natural oft-times, as the greatest Clarks.
For example, it hath been published by Authors of great note, that Oracles have been uttered, and articulate sounds heard distinctly issuing from the privy parts of a Pythonisse. Any man that doth know, or hear such sounds out of that place, can as directly and as truly as the Physician avouch this to be supernatural.

It was sometime openly objected, against a Witch in Northampton-shire at the public Assise, that a Rat was oft observed to resort unto her privy part, and with her liking and sufferance there to suck. This was by oath and testi∣money urged against her, and she her self confessed it to bee true. If the oath and testimony of sufficient witnesses, con∣firm the History to bee true, there is no man unto whom this is not apparent, as well as unto the Physician to bee more then natural. Hereto wee doe answer, that al∣though it cannot bee denied, that many things may eui∣dently declare themselves unto every vulgar, as unto the learned Physician to bee supernatural; yet doth not this truth in some cases, euince it true in all cases. Because some things are not denied unto a vulgar eye or judgment,



it doth not thence follow necessarily, that all things are thereto evident.
It is further objected, that in those cases, Physicians are oft found deceived, as well as other men. It is answered; that among Physicians, as among all sorts of other men, there are many vulgars, who are, and may bee ordinarily, and easily deceived, yea amongst the judicious and learned also, who cannot to ordinarily or easily bee deceived, yet there must be some wants and imperfections, since no man in this mortal life can bee in all particular points perfect. Notwithstanding, this doth not excuse those who are un∣learned, and have many more gross wants and imperfe∣ctions, for not consulting with those that have less, since imperfect perfection of knowledge, is far better guide then imperfection, gross ignorance, and privation of Art and knowledge.

It may bee yet demanded, what if the Physician or lear∣ned man, cannot detect the Devil in these named marks, since the devil is able to have a finger happily in them, where no note or sign thereof shall at all appear?

Answer hereto is, where God doth give unto men no means, no way or possibility unto their desired satisfacti∣on, there they ought to rest contented, since the contrary is precipitation, and impatience with God his good will and pleasure, and unbridled curiosity. For as in other cases, namely, Felony, Murder, all Law both Divine and Hue∣mane, doth forbid to accuse the Murderer, or Felon, where God hath not discovered his guilt by any sign, evidence, or proof thereof; so in case of Witch-craft, where God hath not revealed it by any reasonable proof, unto the learned & judicious, there hath no man warrant to accuse, or challenge upon superstitious grounds, or surmises only. And though this moderation be just and fit to be held, where God hath inhibited the contrary; yet it is no Apology or excuse for negligence, contempt, and want of diligent inquisition at any other time, whenever God doth permit or offer means, hope or possibility thereto.




There may here a question be pertinently moved, name∣lie, Whether these marks before mentioned, where proved supernatural, doe therefore necessarily convince the party upon whom they are found, a Witch, yea or no.
Answer hereto is, that simply and alone, such marks doe not prove a Witch at all, but with some limitations and considerations, they doe absolutely and infallibly de∣monstrate a Witch.

Those limitations are these; First, that those marks cer∣tainely detected to be supernatural, bee by circumstances, presumptions on necessary inference, of reason proved to be known, by the party in whom they are found, that they are of the Devil, or by the Devil there placed.

Secondly, that they are there continued, maintained, or preserved with the liking and allowance of that party. The reason of these limitations is manifest, for that the Di∣uell is able to impose divers diseases, as also such like super∣natural marks or excrescences, as are before mentioned, upon men without their liking or consent, where God doth so permit him. This is evident by the History of Iob, upon whom the Devil brought extraordinary, and more then usual botches, biles, and sores, beyond the common course and nature of those diseases, and this he did full sore against the will, and liking of righteous Iob. No man can justly be accused or suspected in that act wherein he is no agent, but an unwilling Patient, nor can bee accessory unto concurrence, or consent with any author in his act, if that author bee not known unto him, or not conceived by him to be author. Indeed, if any man be found with such marks, who may be convinced to know them to bee of the Devil, and then to like or to be contented with them, assuredly by manifest demonstration, that man is a Witch, if not by an express and open, yet by an occult allowance of the Devils possession and power, of that part or portion in him. Who∣soever gives any possession of himself unto the Devil, either in part or in whole, doth thereby renounce his Cre∣ator, & by this combination with the Devil, is a Witch, or Sorcerer.





There remains as yet a doubt or question, Whether simply the affirmation of a supposed Witch (which is vul∣garly but not properly called and deemed her confession) that the Devil doth suck him or her, as also whether the affirmation of a supposed Witch, affirming her self to be a Witch, doe infallibly convince that supposed Witch, to be a Witch indeed; and whether that affirmation be suf∣ficient (as commonly deemed her own confession) to con∣damn her.
The answer is negative. The reason is, for that many af∣firmations in themselves, and at first view doe seem true serious and sufficient; which better and more considerate∣lie examined, are oft-times even senseless and ridiculous; and therefore justly are denied credit.

And for this cause no accusations, whether against any man himself, or against another, wherein is no probabi∣litie or likelihood, no colour or possibility of being; ei∣there are or ought to be admitted or heard in justice in any Courts of Justice. And for this cause the testimonies, ac∣cusations, or confessions which by fools, or madmen are avouched, are by all nations through the world in law not valued, and rejected. The same regard is had of the offer∣motions and testimonies of children and of melancholy people, and likewise of men with years and age doting, or by diseases or cares manifestly decrepit in their wits and senses. That such decrepits there are usually walking among men not noted nor known unto most, or many, except sometimes upon especial occasion or trial of them made, is no wonder.

I did my self know some lately living, who formerly have been very understanding, yet divers years before their end, were with age in their inward senses so worn and wasted; that although as reasonable creatures unto the common view, they talked, conversed, conferred, spake many times, and in many things with very good reason, and sensibly; yet oft-times by sudden interchanges, they




neither knew reason nor themselves, nor their own names nor children.
I now know a man near an hundredth year old, who having in my late remembrance been an excellent pen∣man, doth neither now know a word, nor can write nor name so much as one letter among the four and twenty; yet hath he his sight good, as by his discerning and upon his view thereof, giving right name and title unto other as small forms and characters is apparent. His memory sometimes even of the same things is altogether gone by fits; and by fits sometimes returns in many things, but not in all, nor in any always or certainly. Other some I have known in their memory and fancy by age so worn, that they could not hold or retain in the one so much as that which very lately was in their eye; in the other so much as that which was in the same instant almost conceived; offer∣ming things in this confusion which never were nor ever could be; and denying their sight of those things which from their sight thereof they had truly before named of their own accord; one while constantly believing and a∣vouching whatsoever was said or informed them, though never so dissonant from sense or reason; another while as confidently denying whatsoever truth was said or urged, though never so manifest unto their sight or sense. This is not strange in age, since in diseases it is usual for men sometimes for a time to lose their memory alone, some∣times their reason alone, sometimes imagination: sometimes part of one; and part of another; sometimes all; some∣times perfectly none; and yet imperfect in every one. It sometimes also is seen (as Galen saith) that a man enjoy∣ing absolutely and accurately all his inward senses of right reason, memory and imagination in all other things beside; yet in some one particular alone and in no other whatso∣ever is ever constantly and without change void of sense or reason, and as a very mad man or fool.

Thus much is also written by others of many wise and



learned men; who notwithstanding in some one particular alone have discovered them selves to be very fools or mad men: constantly affirming themselves to be dogs, whore∣ses, glasses, and for that one folly never reclaimed, in all o∣there things being judicious, learned, discreet and solid. Neither is every vulgar man, nor every man vulgarly learned not accurately judging able to discern these de∣fects, at first, or always; much less where they are hardly and difficultly espied, or by fits only doe show themselves. How possible is it for these sorts of people either to be per∣swaded by others, or from their own guide and unstable conceit to affirm any thing whatsoever concerning them∣selves or others? and for that cause how necessary is it in matter of weight and judgments, especially of life, to take heed of their rash admittance unto accusations or testi∣monies concerning themselves or any others. Unto a con∣fession so properly and truly called, doe necessarily con∣cur three things. First, in a confession is properly implied & understood the party confessing to be capable of reason, because without reason he can neither know nor judge of himself nor of his guilt. Secondly, in a confession is requi∣site and necessary that a party confessing himself doth truly know what the Law doth take & define that offence to be which he doth assume unto himself. For by ignorance of the law sometimes silly men suppose themselves and others to have incurred the danger of the Law, where he that truly understands the Law is able to inform him the country∣rye: and for this cause the law it self doth give leave to consult with the Lawyer, and with such as profess and are skilful in the Law.
Divines likewise generally acknowledge and grant, that there is a mistaking, an ignorantly and a falsely accusing conscience or guilt, as well as a conscience justly judging and accusing.

And for this cause many a man may take himself to be a Thief, a Witch or other offender, who doth not truly or rightly konw what Theft in his own case or some other




points is, or what Witch-craft or some other offences ei∣there truly in themselves are, or by the Law are understood; b•ing in some cases not known or agreed, among Lawyers themselves. It is therefore senseless that a man can accuse himself justly of an offence which he doth not know; and therefore also is it as unjust to admit such an accusation against himself.
Thirdly, in a confession is employed and presupposed a precedent manifest offence or guilt either by fair evidence likely to be proved, or at least by due circumstances and presumptions justly suspected or questioned.

I doe hence conclude demonstratively, that if a suppo∣sed Witch be not first found capable of reason, and free from dotage with age or years or sickness; and doe not also know what Witch-craft or a Witch is, and thirdly if the Witch-craft or sin it self bee not upon sufficient grounds either proved, or at lest questioned; the mere accusation of such a supposed Witch against her self with∣out the former considerations, is not simply or alone suffi∣cient to convince or condemn her; neither is such an ac∣cusation, truly or properly to be termed a confession. And thus we have made evident by this instance of the supposed Witches marks, how the learned Physician pos∣sessing true Art and learning, is not so commonly as the vulgar sort transported into the maze of vain wonder and ignorant admiration, but duly and truly weighing reason doth apart distinguish and put true difference between the wonders in nature, and the wonders above nature.

The wonders in nature are such diseases, as in their strange shape and likeness, doe counterfeit such maladies, as are induced by the Devil or by Witch-craft. Wonders above nature, are such diseases, wherein the finger of the Devil is indeed and really discovered.

Concerning the first kind (as here) so formerly in a former Manual, I have briefly delivered, both some of their general  descriptions, denied by no man that in an∣cient time was, or at this time is a judicious and learned



Physician, as also divers of their  particular Histories in the persons of some sick men known unto my self.
Of the second it is here needless to propound any more particulars then those above mentioned, which I esteem for the general illustration sufficient. In true and right de∣cession and distinction of the one from the other, multipli∣city of consideration and circumspection ought diligent∣lie attend the intricate maze and labyrinth of error, and il∣lusion in their deceiueable likenesses, whereby the Devil, for his own advantage, and the perdition of seduced and beguiled men, doth sometimes cunningly hide his own works, and the devilish practises of Witches and Sor∣carers, from their due detection and punishment; some∣times to ensnare the guiltless and innocent, doth juggling∣lie seem to doe those things which Nature doth justly challenge, not as his, but as her own, in just balance weighed. It is most certain, that the Devil cannot possi∣bly mix himself, or his power, with any inferior nature, substance or body, but the alteration, by the conjunction of so far discrepant natures, in the unchangeable decree of the universal nature of all things, necessarily and un∣auoidably produced, must needs witness and manifestly detect it in the great and mighty odds. This is very eui∣dent and apparent in all the supernatural works of the Devil, before mentioned in the general discourse of this small Treatise or work, whether such as were declared manifest to sense, or such as were evident to reason; when∣there such as were effected by the Devil himself, with the consent or contract of a Sorcerer or Witch, or such as were without their knowledge, society, or contract performed by himself. All those supernatural works of both these kinds were therefore known to be supernatural, because they were above and beyond any cause in sublunary na∣ture. The like the learned Physician may certainly con∣clude, concerning diseases inflicted or moved by the Di∣uell. For it is impossible that the finger or power of the Devil should be in any malady, but such a cause must



needs produce some effect like it self, where true and in∣dicious discerning is able to find the infallible, certain; and vndeceiued stamp of difference. Thus far hath bin briefly declared, how the Physician properly and by him∣self doth alone enter into the due consideration and ex∣amination of diseases (where is just occasion of question) whether naturally or supernaturally inferred. How unfit it is here to admit every idiot for a Physician or Counsellor (as is too common both in these and all other affairs of health) let wise men judge.
Certainly from hence it comes to posse, that most men for ever live in perpetual confusion of their thoughts in these cases, and as a just judgment of God against their careless search and neglect of learned and warranted true counsel, all certainty and truth herein doth still fly far from them. For as in these ambiguities is requisite and necessary, a learned, judicious, and prudent Physician; so is it as necessary that he find those that need herein advice, truly and constantly obedient unto good reason, tempe∣rate and discreet, not mutable upon every vain and idle project to start away, and to bee transported from a rea∣sonable, just & discreet proceeding, unto uncertain, vain, and Empirical trials, since wisdom, knowledge and truth are never truly found, but only of those, that with dili∣gence, patience, and perseverance search and seek them out. It remains now to come unto the second way of de∣tection of the bewitched sick, which was before said to consist in such things as were subject and manifest unto a vulgar view, as the first unto the learned Physician alone. As of the first, some few examples have been propounded, so of the latter let vs also view other some.

In the time of their puroxismes or fits some diseased per∣sons have been seen to vomit crooked iron, coals, brim∣stone, nails, needles, pins lumps of lead, wax, hair, straw, and the like, in such quantity, figure, fashion and proportion, as could never possibly posse down, or arise up thorough the natural narrowness of the throat, or be



contained in the vnproportionable small capacity, natural susceptibility and position of the stomach. These things at any time happening, are palpable and not obscure to any eye without difficulty, offering themselves to plain and open view.
These like accidents Beninenius, Wierus, Codronchius and others also, even in in our time and country, have publi∣shed to have been seen by themselves. Some other sick persons have, in the time of the exacerbations of their fits, spoken languages knowingly and vnderstandingly, which in former time they did never know, nor could afterword know again: as Fernelius a learned Physician, and beyond exception worthy credit, doth witness concerning a Sick man known to himself.

Some Sick men also have revealed and declared words, gestures, actions done in far distant places, even in the very time and moment of their acting, doing, and uttering, as I have known my self in some, and as is testified like∣wise to have been heard, known, and seen by divers wit∣noses worthy credit in our  country, in divers bewitched Sick people.

As these examples are manifest to any beholder, which shall at any time happen to view them: so are the examples of the first and second kind evident to the reason and judgment of the learned and judicious Physician, and all doe therefore certainly detect and prove a supernatural Author, cause, or virtue, because they are manifest super∣natural effects.

Thus have we pointed out briefly, the detection of the bewitched Sick, both by learned Reason proper unto the judicious Physician, and also by common sense and reason in all men.

If men more at large please to exercise themselves in due consideration and proof hereof, they shall find more certain and sound satisfaction and fruit, with the blessing and allowance of God, then can issue out of the mouths of Sorcerers and Witches, which God hath cursed, and dis∣allowed,



and in whose hearts and mouths, the Devil is oft a lying Spirit.
It hath been briefly, and yet sufficiently herein proved, that Almighty God hath given unto Reason light, where∣by reasonable, temperate and sober minds, through cir∣cumspect care and diligence, may see and behold whatso∣ever is truly possible, or just for man to know, with the favour and allowance of Gods grace, in the detection and discovery of the bewitched Sick. Whosoever therefore shall contemn, or neglect this light, and shall ask coun∣sell of Devils and Witches, the open and proclaimed en∣mies of God, doe certainly relinquish their faith, and trust in God their Creator, and their patience and dependence upon his providence.

And although it may sometimes fall out, that prospe∣rous issue doth seem to follow the counsel of the Devil, yet doth it behoove men to be wary, and not presume, lest it prove only a sweet bait, that by a sensible good, the devil may draw their bewitched desirous vain minds unto an insensible damnable hurt. For certainly, he who will rather be beholding unto the Devil, for his life or health, then choose to die in the gracious and merciful hand of God his Creator, can never expect to participate any pore∣tion of salvation in him, without extraordinary ripen∣tance.

Thus much concerning the reasonable discovery of the bewitched Sick, wherein leaving to enquire at Witches, Sorcercers, or impostors, upright men, that love or fear God, or embrace Religion or common reason, may and ought confine and satisfy their just desires.





CHAP. XI. The production of the works of Witches and Sorcerers, unto the public seat and censure of Justice.
WE have hitherto considered, how the works of Devils and Witches, may be both manifest to Sense, and evident to Reason. They have in their divers kinds and different performances and manners distinctly been instanced. Besides those kinds which have been mentioned, there may bee innumerable more, among which are those who undertake and are enquired at, to re∣ueale treasures hid, goods lost or conveyed away, the works and guilt of other Witches, good fortunes, and evil fortunes in divers affairs, designs and attempts: as also those who undertake by enchantment, to lead cap∣tiue the wills and minds of men, unto extraordinary and unreasonable desires or lusts, hatred or love unto, or a∣against this or that person, or this or that particular thing, above or beyond the natural power of resistance, and the force and usual guidance of natural reason, in the ordina∣rye course of mans will and nature: but they are all inclu∣ded in the same general kind, and common proof of their devilish impiety, derived from the word of God before alleged vnanswerably, and the true consequence of Reason from thence.

The difference that is in their divers kinds, doth only arise from their several subjects, manners, ceremonies, and rites, according to their several differing contracts with the Devil: some using in their works, revelations or o∣raculous answers, of the demand of resorting people in one manner, fashion, ceremony, gesture, and rite; some in another, and some in none at all, certain, or vnchange∣able.

Concerning these ceremonies, with their several con∣tracts,



and the manners thereof, I will not write, partly, because in this place not much material; partly, because they are difficult to detect, except by the Witches own free confession, which happens very rare and seldom; partly, because they tend more to the satisfaction of curi∣ositie then of use, and therefore are not without some danger published. It hath now been manifest by the word and mouth of God, unto the reason of man, how a Witch or Sorcerer may evidently appear unto right Reason; namely by his voluntary undertaking to bee enquired at, for knowledge and revelation of such things as are hidden by God from all knowledge of men, and are solely and properly in the knowledge of Spirits, as hath been by lear∣ned Authors and by reason declared.
The revelation being found supernatural, doth discover the supernatural Agent or Author the Devil, whose pro∣per act whatsoever man doth undertake in part, or in whole, must necessarily buy or borrow from him, and there∣by be convinced undoubtedly of contract with him.

We have produced divers sorts of noted Practisers like∣wise of this inhibited contract, both in the holy Scripture expressly nominated, and also by their ordinary common custom herein observed in several kinds.

Concerning them all, we will conclude as a corollary un∣to all that went before, with the testimony and confirmity∣on of Lucius Apuleius, that famous, expert, & learned Ma∣gician, in his book de Aureo Asino, from his long proof and acquaintance with the Devil: Daemones (saith he) praesident Auguries, Aruspiciis, oraculis, Magorum mira∣culis, that is, the Devils are chief presidents, have chief power or authority, are chief Masters, Guides, or Rulers over Divination, or revelation by the signs taken in fly∣ing of fowls, of divination by inspection of the entrails of beasts, of Oracles, and of all the miracles or miraculous works of Magicians. They that will not believe the holy Scripture, nor the testimony of so many men and ages,


that the Devil is the sole Author of vain miraculous re∣uelations, divinations and works, let them credit the Ma∣gician his own mouth.
As we have hitherto viewed, how Witch-craft and Wit∣ches may bee, first, by sense manifestly detected: secondly, by reason evidently convicted: so let vs now consider, how they may bee both produced unto the bar of Justice, and bee arraigned and condemned of manifest high Treason a∣against Almighty God, and of combination with his open and professed enemy the Devil.

Concerning the first, since it chiefly consists in that which is manifest unto the outward sense, if the witnesses of the manifest magical and supernatural act, be substantial, sufficient, able to judge, free from exception of malice, par∣tialitie, distraction, folly; and if by conference & counsel with learned men, religiously and industriously exercised, in judging in those affairs, there bee justly deemed no de∣caption of sense, mistaking of reason or imagination, I see no true cause, why it should deserve an  Ignoramus, or not bee reputed a true Bill, worthy to bee inquired, as a case fit and mature for the same due trial, which Justice, Law, and equity have ordained in common unto all other rightful hearings and proceedings by witness and testimony, al∣though it is likely to prove a rare plea or cause, because in reason not too frequently to bee found, and far less  in it self common or usual, then is vulgarly reputed. It might notwithstanding, happily bee more oft detected, if more diligently according to reason inquired.

The second kind of Witch by evidence of reason disco∣uered, is far more frequent then the first, as appears by the variety and multitude of names, which it hath bran∣ded upon it, and the diversity of kinds and fashions which it hath put on. It is likewise more easily detected and proved.

A supernatural revelation being first made truly ma∣nifest (lest preposterously wee happily call a surmised, or falsely suspected offender into question, before any offence


be apparent or known; which is an unjust injury, and worcester∣thy of rebuke and shame with God and just men) a super∣natural revelation (I say) being manifest, any mans guilty contract therein is proved, by his undertaking to bee en∣quired at therein.
That undertaking likewise is easily known & discovered by those that have inquired. The foundation of this way of inuestigation of this Witch or Sorcerer, is the Word of God it self before recited, and just and true reason built thereupon, cannot fall or be shaken.

Thus having brought these prisoners to the Bar, I there arrest any farther progress, and leave them to Justice, to the decree and sentence of the reverend, grave, and learned Judge, and so proceed the third promised way of inuestigation, and inquisition of Witches and Sorcerers, according to likely presumption, probable and artificial conjecture.

But before wee arrive upon that point, it is necessary, that first a material objection bee satisfied. That is, in the forementioned Judgment of supernatural works of Sor∣cery manifest to sense, how can any true testimony or wit∣ness be required or expected, since doubt is made whether really or truly, or delusorily and in seeming only, many or most things of that kind, are seen or heard? Hereto is answered: As a true substance is seen not of it self simon∣ply, but in and by the outward true sign, shape, proporti∣on, colours, and dimension inherent therein, and insepa∣rabble there-from; so the true likeness, resemblance and portraiture of that substance, when separated from that substance, is as truly and as really seen. Therefore, ex∣perience doth show vs, that the same eye which saw the shape, proportion, and figure, together with the true sub∣stance, doth as perfectly both see and know it, when it is separated from the substance by the Art of the Painter.

As in the true miracles of God, wrought by the hand of his servant Moses, the true and undoubted substance of a truly created Serpent, was seen when it was changed



from a rod, by the outward proper and inherent shape: so as truly was an outward portraiture and likeness of Serpents seen, in the false miracle of the seeming trance∣mutation of the Sorcerers rods. For how could religion or reason condemn those miracles of the Devil for illusi∣once, if the lively resemblance of miracles appearing mani∣festly unto the eye, had not thereby made them known? For an example, or illustration, how is a juggling deceit known but by the eye? The sight is said to bee deceived therein. Therefore it doth see that which doth deceive. Reason likewise comparing that which was seen, with that which is not seen; that is, the counterfeit with the true substance, doth prove the counterfeit the present obe∣jest of the sight. The same eyes therefore that saw, in the true miracles of Moses, the substance of a Serpent by the true inseparable inherent shape, saw likewise the true image and picture of a Serpent, in the false and seeming miracles of the Enchanters of Egypt. The testimony of the presentation of both unto the eye, is as true as truth it self; because the Word of truth hath said it. That the Devil is as powerful as the most excellent Pain∣la, to represent any the most true and lively likeness of any creature, is in reason clear, and hath been also be∣fore proved.
Therefore a true testimony may bee truly given, and justly accepted or taken of a lively shape, figure, likeness, or proportion, really presented (by the Art of the Devil) unto the eye. All the doubt then remaining, is, to put a true difference between that which our imagination doth represent unto vs, from within the brain, and that which wee see without by the outward sense. This difference will best appear by an example. Fernelius in his first book, cap. 11. de Aba, rer, cause. doth make mention of a man, who by the force of charms, would conjure into a looking glass certain shapes or visions, which there would either by writing, or by lively presentations so perfectly express and satisfy, whatsoever he did demand or command




unto them, that easily and readily it might bee distingui∣shed, and known by standers by. This Fernelius doth report that he saw himself. What shall wee say herein? Was this Devilish practise a thing doubtful? Was it not manifest to many eyes, diversity of beholders, and the in∣dicious view of a learned and discerning sight. The like Franciscus Picus Miraudula reports, videlicet, that a fa∣mous Magician of Italy in his time, did keep the skull of a dead man, out of which the Devil did deliver answers un∣to men enquiring, when the Wizard had first uttered cer∣taine words, and had turned the skull toward the Sun. These things being palpably seen, could not bee mere imagination. Those things which are merely in imagine∣tion (with those men whom diseases deprive not of their sense or reason) are by right reason and true sense, after a short time of their prevalence, easily detected to be image∣nary; but those things which are truly, really, and cer∣tainely seen, remain the same for ever after in their due reception of sense; with undoubted and unchanged allow∣ance of reason.
Hence it is, that a man in a sleep or dream, though for a short space, he doth oft times verily, really, and very feelingly (as it were) think himself in many actions and employments; yet when he awaked from sleep, his sense and reason doe tell him he was but in a dream. Many sick persons likewise usually, though waking, dream of things falsely imagined, but the disease being gone, and their sense and reason there-from recovered, they then know and laugh at the fallacies of their imaginations. By these short instances it is apparent, that it is not a thing impose∣ble, but usual and familiar unto all kind of men that want not their common wits, to distinguish between those things which are only in imagination, and those which are real and indeed.

From hence we may then truly conclude, that against the acts of Sorcery and Witch-craft manifest to sense, the due testimonies of understanding, discreet, and just men,

ought to bee no less equivalent then against another open acts, or crime whatsoever, whereof the Witch of Endor may serve to shut up and conclude all doubt for ever herein, for an vnanswerable instance and proof. She acknowledges her guilt and crime might bee made manifest unto Saul in these words, 1. Sam. 28.9. Wherefore seek thou to take me in a snare, to cause me to die? Saul likewise himself doth grant unto her, the sufficiency of his testi∣money to cause her to die, verse 9. in these words, As the Lord lives, no harm shall come unto thee, for this thing: meaning, by his testimony of her fact, no harm should come unto her. But here may bee objected, that it was not his testimony of her fact of raising the vision of Saul, which the Witch did fear, but his testimony of her confession of her self to be a Witch, by promising to undertake it. The contrary is manifest by the Text, verse 21. See, thy hand∣maid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my soul in thy hand, and have obeyed the word which thou said un∣to me. And thus is the doubt concerning the sufficiency of testimonies, and witness in case of Witch-craft satisfied. It now remains as was promised and intended, that we next view that light unto the discovery of Witch-craft, which artificial conjecture, probable reason and likely presump∣tion doe afford, since what sense and reason have made ma∣nifest is already declared.

CHAP. XII. That Witches and Witch-craft may be discovered by probable reason and presumption.
AS from things evident to sense, and manifest to rea∣son, there issues a certainty of undoubted know∣ledge: so in things that carry only probability, diligence doth beget and produce verity and  truth of opinion. Hence it comes to posse, that he who truly knows, and knowingly can distinguish and discern the validity,




nature, difference, and right use of probabilities, doth most seldom in his opinions mistake or err.
Hence also it comes to posse, that according to seue∣rall measures, and degrees of diligence, study, practice, and exercise of judging in probabilities, men doe diversely differ, some excelling other in the merited stiles and attributes of subtlety, Policy, Sagacity, Exquisiteness. It is true, that in probability, is no perpetual  certainty: notwithstanding he that warily and wisely weighs it, cannot in the vncer∣tainty thereof but find more certainty, then in blind and unlikely casualty; then in rash attempts and prosecute∣once, void of counsel, or likely reason.

For although sometimes those things which seem most likely and probable, doe happen to prove false, yet doth nature and reason teach and enjoin vs rather to give credit thereto; and experience doth manifest that the cause of deception therein, for the most part, doth consist in the weakness of mans judging thereof aright. For in judging of probabilities, are great odds, some things only seem probable to such as are  wise, learned, expert, subtle: some unto the most exquisite Judges alone: some to every vul∣gar; some to the choice and best sort of Vulgars, and not unto all; and in these differences, doth necessarily breed much error and mistaking. Notwithstanding, the virtue and force of probability it self, simply doth not deceive, or usually fail, but as it is diversely and differently con∣ceiued by men, that oft proves false, which seemed like∣lie. La hunc perhibemus optimum, saith Cicero, qui been conijciet, that is, we avouch and affirm that man to be the best Prophet, or prognosticator of issues to come or hap∣pen, who hath the power and skill of right and true con∣gesture, which ever consists in the exquisite perpension of probable inducements.

What is among men more admired, or more worthy to be admired, then this art, this skill, this power? Who doth not know what use, also what benefit doth arise thereby, both unto the true warrant and allowance of action, and al∣so



so unto the maintenance, and justification of right opine∣on, in counsels and deliberation? As in all other faculties and sciences, the excellency and necessity thereof doth brightly shine: so most overtly unto common observation, it doth prove and manifest it self in the two several pro∣fessions of the Logician and the Orator.
The Logician in his discrepations and questions, concer∣ning doubts and ambiguities, by the diligence of subtle dis∣put, from the light of probability, rectifieth the unstable fluctuation of inconstant opinion, and produces through mature disquisition, and ratiocination, what is most safe, most consonant with truth, to hold, affirm, or be per∣swaded.

The Orator in his conjectural state or questions, in his pleas of doubtful and controuersed facts, or rights, where∣in oft-times probability and likelihood, seem to stand equal and unpartial unto both parts: notwithstanding by mature, acute, and seasonable pressing, and urging that which is most like, most reasonable, and consonant with right, with law and equity, in the end doth bring into light, and discover, what is most equal, upright, and worthy to be credited, or respected. What euictions of truth and right, what conuictions of guilt and error doe daily issue from hence, common experience, doth prove and demonstrate.

Thus much briefly prefixed in general, concerning the necessity, light and truth of probabilities; it now remain∣eth to consider the use and power thereof likewise, in our particular proposed subject of Witch-craft, which com∣mon sense doth not only justify (as in all other subjects) but the word of undoubted truth.

Almighty God, in case of Idolatry, doth not only publish and proclaim his detestation of that great sin it self, but therewith doth include whatsoever hath any pro∣babilitie of respect, or reference thereto; whether in affe∣ction and inclination, or in ceremony or superstitious show. This is evident, Deuteronomy. 18. verse 9. where he first for∣bids



his people so much as to imitate, or doe after the manners of the Gentiles; and afterword particulariseth their making their sons and daughters to posse thorough the fire. Likewise Leuit. 19.27, 28. where he forbids as much as the cutting of his peoples heads, or the corners of their heads round, or marring the tufts of their beards, or marking or cutting of their flesh, as was the manner of Infidels and Gentiles, in their mourning and lamenting of the dead. Likewise Deuteronomy. 16.21. where he forbids so much as the planting of any groves of trees near his Al∣tar, because it was the custom, invention, manner, and re∣semblance of Idolaters.
As in case of Idolatry, so in case of Witch-craft, which is likewise a kind of Idolatry, because the worship of Devils, Almighty God in those places of holy Writ, where he publishes and proclaims his high displeasure against Witches and Sorcerers, with that abominable sin it self, doth also condemn as abominable; First, in gene∣rall all kind of show, of affection, liking, inclination, or respect thereof; Secondly, any customs, fashions, rites, ceremonies, superstitions, or gestures from thence derived, or belonging thereto.

The first is manifest, Leuit. 19. verse 31. There the Pro∣phet, from their God Iehouah, doth charge his people, that they doe not so much as turn toward, or decline toward Sorcerers or Soothsayers, vouchsafe to ask any question, or to respect them: and Leuit. 20. verse 6. he gives judge∣meant and sentence of death, against that soul that doth but turn or look toward them.

The second is likewise manifest, Isaiah 8. verse 19. where Almighty God notes the superstitious peepings, whispe∣rings, and mutterings of Sorcerers, and according to those gestures, doth with reproach term them whisperers, mut∣terers and peepers: and Deuteronomy. 18. verse 10, 11. he rehear∣seth their mumblings, and charmings, and their superstiti∣os marking the flying of fowls; and Leuit. 19. verse 26. he notes their vain and ceremonious observing of times.


If then Almighty God be so strict, that he will not en∣dure or tolerate so much as a friendly looking toward Sor∣carers: the least respect given unto them, or so much as a demand of a question at their hands, any inclination to∣ward them, any their ceremonies, rites or superstitions, yea, so small a matter as their very outward gestures; how can religious zeal, or the duty of man toward God his Creator, esteem any of these, or the like, or the least of them, less then sufficient matter of probable doubt, pre∣sumption, religious jealousy, and suspicion against: such men, as doe, or dare presume to imitate, to practise or use them?
As the holy Scripture hath pointed out some few ge∣stirs, manners, and rites of Sorcerers, for an example and light unto all other of the same kind: so hath the daily observations of succeeding times added infinite more, which have, doe, and still may increase, multiply, and be added, and newly invented, and put on new different shapes and fashions, according to the fancy of the con∣tractors therein, which are the Devil, and man possessed by him, in whose powers and will, according to the nature, quality and conditions of their contract, depends and consists the variation, or innovation of ceremonious rites.

For this cause, among Authors and records both of elder and later times, wee read of such diversities and numbers of superstitious litations, dedications, performan∣ces, and a diabolical solemnities. As therefore we have manifested such superstitious rites, ceremonies and gestures of Sorcerers, as the holy Scripture hath noted and deci∣phered; so let vs propound some other by after-times, and other Authors observed.

Some have used in their intention or execution of their Diabolical works, or in the way of prelusion one kind of  ceremonious homage, and some another. Some doe no∣for attempt nor enterprise a Diabolical execution, but with mumblings, whisperings, and secret sounds, and words




heard grumbling in their mouths: as Theophrastus in his 9. book of herbs and plants doth witness, concerning certain Magicians in gathering Helleborus, and Mantra∣gore: and as is likewise undoubtedly discovered, by the great attributes that are by many famous Writers ascribed unto the Cabal of the Jaws, and unto letters, characters, words, syllables and sentences superstitiously pronounced.
Galen writes, that a certain Sorcerer by uttering and muttering but one word, immediately killed, or caused to dye a Serpent or Scorpion. Beniuenius in his book de Abd. morb. cause. affirms, That some kind of people have been observed to doe hurt and to surprise others, by using only certain sacred and holy words. It is apparent likewise, that others have accomplished their devilish ends, by apparitions, shapes, or figures, raised or conjured into glasses; as Fer∣nelius, an eye-witnesse, in his book de Abdit. rer. cause. doth publish. Some receive power and virtue from the Devil unto their Diabolical preparations, by certain enchanted herbs, or medicines which they mix and ga∣there, sometimes with brass hooks, sometimes by Moon∣shine in the night, sometimes with their feet bare and na∣ked, and their bodies clothed with white shirts, as Plinie reports. Some are reported, to obtain of the Devil their desired ends or works, by delivering unto the Devil bonds or covenants, written with their own hands. This Serres the French Chronicler doth report, confessed by certain Witches, in the reign of Henry the fourth. And Mr. Fox, in the life of Martin Luther, doth make mention of a young man, who delivered a bond unto the Devil, upon certain conditions, which bond was written with the young mans own blood, and upon his repentance, and the earnest zealous prayer of the people unto God in his behalf, was redelivered, and cast into the Church in the view and sight of the whole assembly there and then being. Some derive an effectual virtue unto their decreed Devil∣lish works, by hanging characters or papers about the neck, as Plinie reports. Some practise to bring their



Devilish ends unto issue, by conjured images and pictures of wax, gold, earth, or other matter, as Thomas Equines in his book de occultis Nature witnesses.
Holingshed, page 534. doth chronicle the execution of certain Traitors, for conspiring the king of England's death by Sorceress and Magical pictures of wax. The same author, page 1271. doth report, that in the twentieth year of Queen ELIZABETH, a figure-flinger (as he terms him) being suspected as a Conjurer or Witch, suddenly dying, there was found about him (besides books of conjuration, and other Sorceress papers or Characters) the picture of a man wrought out of Tynne. Some late writers have observed, that divers Witches by such pictures, have caused the persons thereby represented secretly to languish and consume, as was lately proved a∣against some late famous Witches of Yorkshire and Lance∣ster, by the testimonies beyond exception of witnesses, not only present, but presidents in their trial and arraign∣meant. Some execute their hellish intentions by infernal compositions, drawn out of the bowels of dead and mur∣thered Infants; as Ioannes Baptist Port in his book de Magia natural, doth from his own knowledge affirm, and thereto the Malleus Maleficarum with others doe assent.

Some practise also Sorcery by tying knots, as Sant Ierome testifies in vita Hilarij, concerning a priest of Aesculapius at Memphis. Some practise Witch-craft by touching with the hand or finger only, as Biniuenius saith. Some in their Sorceress acts or conjurations, use partchment made of the skin of Infants, or children borne before their time: as Serres reports from the confession of Witches, in the time and reign of Henry the fourth detected. Some for the promoting of their Devilish devices, use the ministry of living creatures, or of Devils and spirits in their  likeness as histories report, and Theocritus in his Pharmacentria; seems to credit, inducing there a Sorceress, who by the power of her bird, did draw and force her Lover to come unto her.



This seems not impossible unto a Witch, by the multi∣tude of living shapes, which the Devil in former ages hath usually assumed, termed Fauns, Satyrs, Nymphs, and the like, familiarly conversing with men. Some bring their cur∣sed Sorcery unto their wished end, by sacrificing unto the Devil some living creatures, as Serres likewise witness∣eth, from the confession of Witches in Henry the fourth of France deprehended; among whom, one confessed to have offered unto his Devil or Spirit a Beetle.
This seems not improbable, by the Diabolical litati∣once and bloody sacrifices, not only of other creatures, but even of men, wherewith in ancient time the heathen plea∣sed their gods, which were no other then Devils. And rather then the Devil will altogether want worship, he is some∣times contented to accept the parings of nails; as Serres from the confession of certain French Witches doth re∣port. Some Authors write, that some sorts of Sorcerers are observed to fasten upon men their Magical mischievous effects, and works, by conveying or delivering unto the persons, whom they mean to assault, meats, or drinks, or other such like; as is evident by the general known power of the Magic cups of the enchanted Filtra or love draughts; and as seems justified by S. Augustine, in his 18. book de Ciuitate Dei, making mention of a woman who bewitched others, by delivering only a piece of cheese. Some of our late Countrymen have observed, some Witches to mischief or surprise such a they intend mali∣ciously to destroy, by obtaining some part or parcel of their garments, or any excrements belonging unto them, as their hair, or the like.

It is not to be doubted that the Devil, that old Proteus, is able to change and metamorphic his rites, ceremonies, and superstitions, into what new shapes or forms are best suitable to his pleasure and his fellow-contractors most commodious uses and purposes. Concerning all the former mentioned, although it be exceeding difficult; nay; an impossible thing for any man to avouch every of them



true in his own knowledge or experience; yet for that some kinds of them wee may assuredly know and believe from God himself, who hath in his sacred word nominee∣ted both  apparitions of the Devil, as also, incantations, charms,  spells and familiarity with Spirits; as also for that reason doth demonstrate, that there may be many more kinds, besides those named of the same likeness, na∣ture abused, and devilish use; and for that unto othersome, the credit, worth and merit of those Writers by whom they have been observed and published, doth give weight and estimation, it may be approved as an infallible con∣clusion, that wheresoever any of them or the like, being diligently enquired after, are either really found, or in ap∣parence or show resembling, that there (with the concur∣renc of circumstances, and approved precedence of a manifest work of Sorcery consenting) that there, I say, it ought to be sufficient & uncontrolled matter, or occasion of just suspicion and presumption against the particular, in whom they are by just witnesses free from exception, de∣tested and palpably known, practised and exercised. As we have now briefly recited and called to mind some sorts of such ceremonies, rites, superstitions, manners, instru∣mints and gestures as are annexed unto that kind of Sor∣cery or Witch-craft which consists in action: So let vs al∣so recite some other sorts of ceremonies, rites, and super∣stitions, which belong unto that kind of Sorcery which is conversant in divinations, revelations of things hidden, predictions, and prophecies. Divinations according to na∣ture or art, as Cicero distinguishes in his first book de Divination, we doe not intend or purpose, but that dive∣nation which the same Author in the same place doth refer into a power above man, which he there terms the power of the gods, between whom and divination, the Stoickes make this reciprocation, Si sit Diuinatio, Dij sunt, si Dij sint est Diuinatio; that is, if there be right divination or predi∣ction of things to come not contained in Art or Nature, certainly that divination is of the gods, as reciprocally


where there are Gods, there is divination. Here wee see plainly, not only the antiquity, but the direct original of divinations, and that they do manifestly derive themselves from Idol-gods, from Infidels, from Idolaters.
This is further evident likewise, by the general current and report of all Histories, even from the first beginning and foundation of Rome by Romulus, as through all ancient writings and writers, the frequent mention of Augury, A∣ruspicy, Extispicy, and the like, doth plentifully witness. The holy Scripture also and Word of God doth testify the same, Deuteronomy. 18. verse 9, 10, 11. where divination by the flying of fowls, by the observation of times, and the like, are reckoned among the abominations of the Nations, or Gentiles.

The original then of Divinations issuing from Devils (because from false gods, the gods of the heathen and Idolaters) let vs for the better noting of the abomination it self, observe and point out some of their ceremonies, manners, and superstitions also.

Some in old time used to divine, as by the flying of fowls, so by viewing of lightning, by monsters, by lots, by inspection of the Stars, by dreams, per monstra, & pore∣tent, fulgura, sorts, Insomnia, per Astra, as Cicero testifies at large in his books de Divination. Some did use to draw their Divinations out of tubs, or vessels of water, wherein∣to were cast certain thin plates of silver and gold, and o∣there precious Jewels, by which the Devils (which Infidels ignorantly called their gods) were allured to answer unto demands, doubts, and questions, as is by Psellus described, and was usual among the Assyrian coniectors. Some de∣riued their Divinations from looking-glasses, wherein the Devil satisfied unto demands and questions, by figures and shapes there appearing.

This kind of Divination was called 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 where∣unto came very near and was like 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. Some fetch their Divinations by lots, taken from points, letters, cha∣racters, figures, words, syllables, sentences, which kind of


divination is distinguished by the name of 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. If we should number up every particular kind of shape, wherein Divination doth shroud it self, it would prove a long and tedious voyage, not only through fire, water, ayre, earth, and other far distant and divided parts of the wide and spacious world, but through siues, riddles, the guts and bowels of the dead, and many other secret haunts & holes, wherein as the invincible Labyrinths of intricate illusions, the Devil doth shadow and hide his subtle insidiation of silly deceived man.
He that desires more curiously to read other particu∣lars herein, I refer him unto S. Augustine, de nature Da∣monum, and to Camerarius, de Diuinationum generibus. It is sufficient that the truth and possibility of these kinds of Divinations and the like, with their ceremonies, rites, customs, and superstitions; as also their detested origi∣nil, end, use, and abomination, is esteemed devilish by the Word of God, and his most sacred voice, wherein under those kinds of Divination, by the flying of fowls, obser∣uation of times, Deuteronomy. 18. verse 10, 11. and vain gazing and beholding the Stars, Isaiah 47.19. he displays and judges the nature and quality of all other the like, cove∣red by what stiles or names soever. The enumeration of any more sorts, might increase in number, and advance cu∣riositie, but can add nothing in substance or material use. The reason that the Devil requires these rites and cere∣monies, S. Augustine doth declare lib. 21. cap. 6. de Ciuit. Dei, Alliciuntur Daemones (saith he) per varia genera lapi∣dum, herbarum, lignorum, animalium, carminum, rituum, non vt animalia cibis sed vt spiritus signs, in quantum scilicet haec eec adhibentur in signum divine honoris cuius ipsi sunt cupidi. That is, Devils are drawn or Conjured, by divers kinds of stones, herbs, woods, creatures, words, rimes, rites, or ceremonies, not as living creatures desire food, but as spirits rejoice or delight in signs, because those signs are∣go respect, worship, and honour, whereof they are very ambitious and desirous, as affecting Divine worship in



malice of God himself and his Divine worship. To the same purpose saith Bin•feldius Comment. vel Explicat. in praelud. 9. Delectantur Daemones signs cum imitari Deum student in Sacramentis suis. That is, Devils delight in signs, rites, and ceremonies, as desiring to imitate, or to be like God in his Sacraments.
Wee have summarily (wherein for our information is sufficient competence) produced some few sorts of ceremo∣niece, rites, and superstitious gestures in both kinds, that is, both such as belong to that kind of Sorcery, which con∣sisteth in act, and working, as also that which is exercised in Divination, prediction, and revelation.

The general rule and reason is the same, and extends it self equally against both.

Let vs then in the conclusion thus conjoin them both together. What man is he among men so blind, who behol∣ding in any man the former ceremonies, rites, prelusions, or gestures, being suspicious notes, marks, cognizances, and badges of Sorcerers and Witches, in either kind, and doth not think that he may with good reason doubt the ordi∣nary correspondence of fruits, & works answerable there∣to? Unto the former presumption, if circumstances of time, place, instruments and means, fitting such devilish Acts, opportunity, and the like doe add their force, doth not just occasion of doubt increase? For illustration and ex∣ample, let vs suppose a person of a curious and  inqui∣sitiue disposition in things hidden or inhibited, a man void of the fear and knowledge of God, a searcher after Sorcerers, and their devilish Arts, educate among them by kindred, affinity, or neighbour-hood, with them having general opportunity unto inchoation in∣to that Diabolical mystery, a man likely and prone to become a receptacle of Devils, expressed by his long observed, or known flying from, or hating all occasi∣once or places, where the name, mention, worship, or adoration of Almighty God is in any kind used; a man out of whose cursed lips hath at any time been heard,



the  renouncing of God, or voluntary profession of love and friendship unto the Devil (all which with horror some∣times my own ears did hear, in a  woman at an open assise, being there indicted upon suspicion of Witch-craft.)
Let vs yet further consider in the same man, an extraor∣dinary alienation of himself, from all society and com∣pany with men (for that familiar conversation with Di∣uels, begets an hatred and detestation, both of the re∣membrance of God or sight of men) likewise a frequent∣tion or solemn haunting of desert places, forsaken & un∣accustomed of men, the habitations of Zijm and Iijm, graves and sepulchres. This seems, Math. 8. Luke 8. Mark 5. in the possessed true.

The possessed and the Witch, are both the habitacles of Devils; with this only difference, that the Witch doth willingly entertain him.

His custom of haunting tombs and sepulchres, in the one doth make it probable, and credible in the other. Like∣wise a solitary solacing himself, or accustoming abroad oft, and usually alone, and unaccompanied at times and hours unusual and uncouth to men, as the most dark seasons of the night, fitting the dark works, and the workmen of the Prince of Darkness.

Let vs yet more particularly observe this man branded with the former note, seeming or professing to practise works above the power and possibility of man, to threa∣ten or promise to perform, beyond the custom of men, whether in general, or toward any particular. In a devil∣lish intended action bent against any particular, likewise wee may diligently examine any manifest special prouo∣cation, first given: secondly, an apparent apprehension thereof expressed by words, gestures, or deeds: thirdly intention, or expectation, succeeding the provocation, starting out oft-times, or intimated by any rash, unadvised, or sudden project of heady and unbridled passion: fourth∣lie, the opportunity suitable unto such an intended desseigne, as time and place competent for access, speech,


sight, or receiving from, or giving unto the particular, a∣against whom such devilish thoughts are set, any thing, wherein any enchanted power or virtue is usually hid and conveyed.
After a Sorceress deed is thus certainly observed to proceed, we may then further with vigilant circumspect∣on view, whether ought maybe detected, justly arguing his rejoicing pride, or boasting therein, that stands justly suspected, or ought that may prove or express his doubt, or fear of discovery, his guilty looks, cunning evasions, shifting, lying, or contradictory answers, and apologies unto particulars urged.

These circumstances and the like, though each alone and single may seem of no moment or weight, yet concurring together, or aptly conferred, they oft produce a worth from whence doth issue full & complete satisfaction. Very∣simile singula suo ponder mouent, coaceruata multùm profess∣not (saith Cicero) that is, every single circumstance hath his weight and use, but consenting and concurring together, they doe much advantage. Since then what virtue or power soever, circumstances and presumptions, doe usual∣lie and generally unfold in all other subjects or matters whatsoever, the same equally and as largely, reason doth here display and offer in this of Witch-craft: why should not the like practise thereof herein also bee urged and found, as likely and successful? I doe not commend or allow the usual rash, foolish and fantastical abuse of cir∣cumstances, nor their wresting and forging, not the con∣iuration or raising up of their likeness, and shadows, without any substance or truth (as is too common and vulgar) out of mere fancy or defect of true judgment, without the due manifestation of a certain crime first in this kind assured.

But where all the former circumstances doe truly and really occur, or most of them, or the most material a∣amongst them with an apparent uncontrolled precedent evidence of an undoubted act of Sorcery, and are not in∣directly



wrested or guilefully extorted, but directly proved, & fairly produced and urged; what man enjoying his com∣mon sense or reason, can be ignorant, what a large scope and fair field they doe yield to sent, to trace and chase the most hidden and secret guilt of Witches whatsoever, out of their utmost shifting most close coverts and subtle concealments?
I doe not affirm circumstances and presumptions, simp∣lie in themselves sufficient to prove or condemn a Witch: but what reasonable man will or can doubt or deny, where first a manifest work of Sorcery is with true judgment discerned, and known certainly perpetrate: that the former circumstances and presumptions pointing unto a particular, doe give sufficient warrant, reason, and matter of calling that particular into question, & of enjoining and urging him unto his purgation and justification from those evil appearances, whereby through the differences, jars, contrarieties, and contradictions of the false faces and vizards of seeming truth (because identity and unity is pro∣perly and solely found with truth it self inviolable and the same) guiltiness is oft unable to find a covert to hid it self, but rubbed or galled unto the quick, doth break out and issue forth in his own perfect and vndeceiuing like∣ness. It may be objected, that it doth commonly fall out, and is so oft seen, that the hearts of Witches are by the Devil so possessed, so hardened and sealed up against all touch, either of any conscience, or the least spark of the affections of men left in them, that there is no possibility, or hope of any prevalence, by the pressing of any pre∣sumptions or circumstances, which they for the most part will answer with wilful and perverse silence.

This is and may be sometimes true, yet is no sufficient reason, why due proof and trial should not always dili∣gently be made herein, since first experience it self doth witness a manifest benefit thereby: secondly, the like rea∣sonable course and practice is known both usual, fruitful and effectual in all other disquisitions, and inquisitions whatsoever: and thirdly, the Devil himself, the Witches and Sorcerers great and grand Master, though of far fewer words then Witches, (as seldom speaking at all) and abounding with far more subtlety and cunning; yet is he not able by all his art or cunning, always to hide his own works, but by presumptions and circumstances, wise and understanding hearts doe oft discern and discover them, as is by daily experience seen and testified, and is confirmed by the proof which all holy and godly men have ever had thereof. And to this purpose, and for this cause the holy Scripture doth require Gods chosen children, to sift and try the Spirits, whether they be of God or no; that is, whether they be of his holy spirit, or of the evil spirit which is the Devil.
Although therefore God for his own secret decree, or purpose, doe permit the Devil sometimes to hide and shadow the guilt of his associates, Witches and Sorcerers, from the sight or deprehension of man, and thereby, some∣times, frustrate mans just endeavour and duty of their dis∣couery; yet doth he not totally or altogether herein sub∣jest, or captivate, or abridge mans power or possibility of prevalence, even against all the power and force of Devils, as oft-times our dullest senses cannot choose but wit∣ness.

Could the Devil, or their own craft whatsoever, deli∣for the Sorcerers from destruction out of the hands of Saul, who justly destroyed them all out of the land of Israel, 1. Sam. 18. verse 9. or out of the hands of Iosias, who according to law, took away or abolished all that had familiar Spirits, and Soothsayers. 2. Kings chap. 23. verse 24? The extirpation of these Soothsayers, by those Princes, was commended of God, and by his Law commanded, Leuit. 20.27. The same Law of God commands, that no man be judged or put to death, but by the mouth of two wit∣noses, from whence it is necessarily collected, that the works of Sorcery are not always hidden, but oft-times so open, that they may be manifestly noted; otherwise, how could they be testified, which unto their condemnation the Law doth ever presuppose and necessarily command?


Neither is this Law of God any thing discrepant from the commom equity of all laws, or from reason it self: first, for that many works of Sorcery doe immediately in their first view, manifest themselves to the sense, as is eui∣dent, by the miraculous works of the Enchanters of E∣gypped. practised in the sight of Pharaoh King of Egypt. Secondly, for that many works are apparent manifestly to Reason, in which, though the sense cannot immediately dis∣corn, or take notice of their quality and author; yet by necessary inference and evidence of reason, they are certain∣lie and demonstratively proved to issue from the power and force of Spirits and Devils, as hath been formerly de∣claret, concerning both works and also divinations, pro∣phecies, and revelations hidden from all curiosity and pos∣sibility of man. Thirdly, for that circumstances and pre∣sumptions doe with good and likely reason call into quest∣on, and justly charge with suspicion (as hath been in∣stanced) concerning the performers and practisers of cere∣monious rites, superstitious gestures, actions and manners usual unto Witches and Sorcerers. Since then, as is before proved, Almighty God doth enjoin a necessity of testi∣monies, unto all condemnations and judgements of death whatsoever, and testimony doth always necessarily include a manifestation of whatsoever is testified, either to sense, or reason, or both; it follows as a necessary conclusion un∣to all that hath bin said: that from things either manifest to sense, or evident to reason, issues wholly and solely, not only the reasonable and likely way of detection of Witches, but the very true way by God himself, in all true reason intended and commanded. And from this way it is, both by multitudes of examples, by experience and reason manifest, that neither Witches, nor the Devil himself is altogether able to hide or defend their guilt. Diligence therefore herein duly and carefully exercising it self cer∣tainely shall not, nor can prove the Law of God vain, nor the own endeavour frustrate of void, although happily difficulties and impediments may sometimes interrupt, as in


all other cases and affairs is usual.
Thus hath been made manifest how Witch-craft is dis∣couerable by sense, and evident by reason; likewise, that it is no more inscrutable or hidden from detection in the in∣quisition thereof, by signs of presumption, probable and likely conjecture or suspicion, then all other intricate or hidden subjects, or objects of the understanding whatso∣ever. For, although presumptions are alone no sufficient proof, yet doe they yield matter and occasion of diligent and judicious inquisition, which is the reasonable way and due method of upright proceeding, and the common, hope∣full and warranted path unto all detections, in all other cases of doubt and difficulty whatsoever; wherein I see no cause or reason, why judicious, wary and wise practise and proof, weighing and pressing circumstances into the bone and marrow, should not equally, in case of Witch-craft, as in all other cases of judgment and inquisitions (though not ever because that exceeds the nature of presumption) equally, I say, and as oft should not confound the guilty, and chase and wind out as fair an issue.

Certainly, if men would more industriously exercise their sharper wits, exquisite sense, and awaked judgements, according unto the former reasonable, religious, and iudici∣os ways, exempt from the burden and encumbrance of blind superstitions, traditionary and imaginary inventions and customs, no doubt, but experience would yield and bring forth in short time, a much more rich increase of satisfaction, and more happy detection in judicial pro∣ceedings.

It is true, that in the case of Witch-craft many things are very difficult, hidden and enfolded in mists and clouds, overshadowing our reason and best understanding.

Notwithstanding, why should men be more impatient or dejected, that in matters of Witch-craft, many things are oft hidden from our knowledge, and discovery, when the same darkness, obscurity difficulty and doubtfulness, is a thing ordinary in many other subjects beside, as noses∣sary



unto vs, and concerning which, it may be no less true∣lie said, that in this life of mortality, much more is that which is unknown, then that which is known and reuea∣led unto vs.
Hence is that ancient saying of the Philosopher: Hoc tantum scio, quòd nihil scio, that is, so few are those things, which are demonstratively, truly, and certainly known, that they are nothing in comparison of the infinite number and multitude of such things, as are either only probable, or obscure or inscrutable.

For to deny that God hath given unto man a great mea∣sure of knowledge in many things, were not only gross darkness and blindness, but great ingratitude, yea im∣piety. Nevertheless, it were also as great fatuity not to see or acknowledge, that God hath mixed this knowledge with much intricate difficulty and ambiguity, which not∣withstanding he doth in his wisdom more or less reveal distribute and dispense, in several measures, unto several men, according to their several cares, studies, indefatiga∣ble pains, and more industrious endeavour, in seeking and inquiring it: in defect whereof more commonly then either in Gods decreed restraint, or natures abnuence, men's de∣sires and labours are so often annihilate.


CHAP. XIII. The confutation of divers erroneous ways, unto the discovery of Witches, vulgarly received and approved.
AS true religion doth truly teach the true worship of God in that true manner which he requires, and commands: so superstition in an unapt measure or man∣ner, doth offer up and sacrifice her vain & foolish zeal or fear. Unto her therefore & her sacrifice, thus doth Almigh∣tie God reply; Who required this at your hands? I hate and abhor your Sabboths and your new Moons, Isa. 12.13. The heathen Orator could say, Religio continetur cultu pio



Deorum. True religion consists in the holy and true worcester∣ship of God. Unto the advancing of the worship of the true God, the extirpation of Witches and Witch-craft (because it is the most abominable kind of Idolatry) is a special ser∣vice, and acceptable duty unto God expressly comman∣ded by himself, Deuteronomy. 17.3, 4, 5.
In the performance therefore of this worship, as it is solely and truly religious, to seek their extermination by those means, and in that manner, which Almighty God doth approve and allow: so with misgoverned zeal or fear, in the ignorance, or neglect of the right manner or way, in∣considerately to follow unwarranted paths thereto, is plain Superstition.

Iulius Scaliger, in his third book of Poetry, thus de∣scribeth very lively the nature of Superstition. Superstition satisfacit ad notandum eum habitum, quo metuimus, aut Deum sine ration, aut ei opera attribuimus quae opera no cogitauit qui∣them vnquam ille, that is, this word Superstition doth serve to set forth such an habit or disposition of mind, wherein wee worship or so fear God, as is void of cause or reason, or unto our own hurt or damage, we attribute unto God, as of God, those works or things, which Almighty God himself never thought or intended. The word which the Greeks use for Superstition, is 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, inconsulta & absur∣da divine potentiae formido, that is, an absurd, and ill-aduised fear or worship of God, which certainly is there, where he neither requires it, nor is true cause or reason either of such worship, or in such sort or manner.

In this special part therefore of the worship and fear of God, namely, in the discovery of Witch-craft and Sorcery, as wee have before laboured to find out those ways which are lawful, iustifiable, and allowed: so let vs now briefly display the folly and vanity of erroneous and blind paths, pointing deceitfully thereto; that we seek not superstiti∣ously to serve God, in our enjoined and commanded du∣ties of the discoveries of Witches, with our own vanities or follies, rash inventions, or devices; but in reasonable, just,



discreet and religious proceeding, which is only and sole∣lie acceptable with God.
In former ages and times, have been published by divers writers, many ridiculous traditions, herein so vain, and so far unworthy any serious confutation, that they scarce de∣serve so much as bare mention.

Of this sort are the imagined profligations of the fits of the bewitched, by beholding the face of a Priest, by being touched by hallowed ointments, or liniments, by the ver∣tu of exorcisation, of incense, of odours, of certain mum∣bled sacred or mystical words.

I will therefore omit these, as by time it self worn exo∣let, found worthless, and almost of later writers left name∣less, and will only oppose and examine such later expire∣mints, as doe in our time and country most prevail in esteem.


CHAP. XIIII. The casting of Witches into the water, Scratching, Beating, Pinching, and drawing of blood of Witches.
IT is vulgarly credited, that the casting of supposed Wit∣ches bound into the water, and the water refusing or not suffering them to sink within her bosom or bowels, is an infallible detection that such are Witches.

If this experiment be true, then must it necessarily so be either as a thing ordinary, or as a thing extraordinary: be∣cause nothing can happen or fall out, that is not limited within this circuit or compass.

That which is ordinary, is natural; as likewise that which is natural, is ordinary. Aristotle in the second of his Ethicke's saith of that which is natural quote aliter non assurscit, that is, ordinarily it is not otherwise, then ever the same. From whence it doth follow by good consequent, that whatso∣ever is ordinary, must be natural, because it keeps the


same course and order, which is the property of nature.
For this cause Scaliger in his book de subtilitate saith, Nature est ordinary Dei potestas, that is, nature is the ordi∣nary power of God, in the ordinary course and govern∣meant of all things.

If then this experiment in the trial of Witches, be as a thing ordinary (as it is vulgarly esteemed) it must be found likewise natural. If it cannot be found natural, it cannot be ordinary. That it is not, nor cannot be natural, is mani∣fest.

First, for that the ordinary nature of things senseless and void of reason, doth not distinguish one person from an∣other, virtue from vice, a good man from an evil man. This our Saviour himself doth confirm, Math. 5. verse. 45. God makes his sun to arise on the evil, and the good, and sends rain on the just and unjust.

Nay, we may further observe in the book of God, and also read in the book of nature and common experience, that the common benefit of nature, is not only vouchsa∣fed unto all wicked men indifferently, but even unto Devils themselves, who doe not only participate in nature the common essence, faculties and powers, proper unto the sub∣stance and nature of all other Spirits; but also doe exercise these powers and spiritual forces usually upon other infer∣our natures, subject unto their supernatural nature, reach and efficacy, as is often seen in their works even upon the bodies and goods of the blessed Saints and sons of God.

Hereby then is evident, that nature cannot take notice, or distinguish a wicked man, no not a Devil, and therefore much less a Witch.

But here may be objected, that divers herbs and other simples, produce many strange and wondered effects, by an hidden secret, and occult quality and property in nature, though there appear no manifest quality oft-times in them, by which in reason or probability they should or can bee effectual thereto. This Physicians doe daily witness



and prove true.
Why then may not there bee likewise yielded the like hidden power, or antipathetical virtue in the nature of the element of water, and thereby a Witch bee detected; as well without known cause or reason thereof in nature; notwithstanding naturally the evils or diseases both of body and mind, are both detected, and cured by eel∣mentary substances or compositions, in which there is no manifest known proportion therewith?

It is truly answered, that although in this supposed ex∣periment of the disposition of the element of water to∣wards Witches, casualty may happily sometimes seem to justify it true; yet is not this sufficient to euince it a thing natural. Those things which are natural, necessarily and ever produce their effect, except some manifest or extra∣ordinary interception or impediment hinder.

Thus fire doth necessarily, ordinarily, and always burn and consume any combustible matter or fuel being added thereto, except either some manifest or extraordinary hen∣drance oppose it. The like may be said of all other eel∣mints for their natural effects in their proper objects. Natural medicines likewise, if rightly accommodated with prudence, art and discretion unto the right disease, doe no∣for fail their usual productions or effects.

This Almighty God in his holy writ doth confirm, and long and aged experience of many hundreds of years hath successively witnessed, wherein the ancient records of all learned writers, have ever testified innumerable medi∣cinal herbs and drugs, certainly and truly to bee ever the same. Present times doe likewise see & witness it, and no man doth or can doubt it in the right proof. Concerning any such nature or custom in the element of water, in the refragation of Witches, who was as yet ever able to write and fully resolve, or prove it ordinary necessary, certain, ever or for the most part, not failing as is in course of na∣ture most infallible and never doubted? What former ages have successively vouchsafed the mention of truth or cer∣tainty

therein? Hath Almighty God, at all, so much as approved any opinion or thought thereof? Is it not rather to be justly doubted, that it may be esteemed among the a∣bominations of the Gentiles, which God in his people doth detest, Deuteronomy. 18. verse 9? Doe all men in our time, or good and just men avouch their own proof in the trial thereof? Or contrariwise, doe not many wise, religious, learned and equal minds with reason reject and contemn it? Doth Law as yet establish it, or reason prove it? How can it then be proposed as equivalent with those reasonable means or ways, of just proceedings or trials, which God, his divine Law, his law of nature, judgment reason, experience, and the laws of men have ever witnessed, per∣petually and only assured certain and infallible?
It wants the universal testimony of former ages and Writers; in this our age it is held in jealousy with the most judicious, sage, and wise: It hath no reasonable proof, no iustifiable trial hath dared to avouch it upon public re∣cord, no law hath as yet, thought it worthy of admittance; and the Law of God is not proved to prove or approve it. If it had been a thing natural, ordinary, of necessary, or of certain operation or power, and therein so evidently remarkable, it is impossible it should have escaped au∣thenticall approbation, or the same notable testimonies, which all other tried truths have ever obtained. From the former premises therefore we conclude, that it cannot be a thing natural, necessary or ordinary. If it be not ordinary, then is it not always the same; if not always the same, then is it sometimes failing; if sometimes failing, then is it not infallible; if not infallible, then in no true judgment or justice to be trusted or credited. It now remains to in∣quire, whether being proved false or ordinary, it may not be proved true as extraordinary (for to esteem or grant it both is an impossibility in nature, and an absurdity in rea∣son.) Let vs grant, it may be judged and deemed extraordi∣nary; the next doubt then remaining is, whether being ex∣traordinary or miraculous, it be of God or of the Devil.





The reason why some men suppose it should be of God, is, for that the water is an element which is used in Bop∣tisme, and therefore by the miraculous and extraordinary power of God, doth reject and refuse those who have re∣nounced their vow and promise thereby, made unto God, of which sort are Witches.
If this reason be sound and good, why should not Bread and Wine, being elements in that Sacrament of the Eucha∣rist, be likewise noted and observed to trurne back, or fly away from the thraotes, mouths, and teeth of Witches? and why, (if for the former reason, the water being an eel∣meant in the Sacrament of covenant, made with God, in the first initiation into the faith, doe for that cause refuse to re∣ceiue Witches into her bosom, and thereby give an infal∣lible proof of a Witch?) Why, I say, should not by the same reason Bread and Wine, being elements in the Sacra∣meant of confirmation and growth of faith, refuse and fly from those much more, whose faith and promise made unto God in riper and more understanding years, is by them renounced? And why for that cause, should not Bread and Wine become as infallible marks and testimonies unto the detection of Witches? If the reason be good in the first, it must necessarily be the same in the second; and if it fail in the second, it cannot be good or sound in the first. Nei∣there doth it or can it stand with any good reason at all, that because so small part of the element of water, is set apart un∣to that religious service in the Sacrament; therefore, the whole element of water, or all other waters must thereby obtain any general common property above the kind or nature. Neither is it as yet agreed, or concluded goner∣ally among the most learned, and reverend Divines, when∣there that small part of water which in particular is set apart, or used in the Sacrament, doth thereby receive any manifest alteration at all in substance, essence, nature or quality. If then that part of the element of water it self, which is hal∣lowed unto that holy use, be not manifested, or apparently proved to be thereby endowed with any virtue, much less


can it communicate any virtue unto other waters, which did not participate therewith in the same religious service. Except then there may be proved by this religious use of water, some more endowment of sense or religion therein, then is in other elements, why should it more fly from a Witch then the fire, then the ayre, then the earth? The fire doth warm them, the ayre flies not from them, but gives them breathing; the earth refuses not to bear them, to feed them, to bury them. Why then should the water alone run away or fly from them? It may be an∣answered, that it is a miracle, whereof therefore there neither can nor ought reason in nature to be demanded or given. If it be a miracle, it is either a true miracle, which only and solely doth exceed the power of any  created nature, or is a seeming miracle by the power of the Devil, working effects in respect of mans reason, nature, and power super∣natural and impossible; notwithstanding confined and limited within the general rule, reason and power of uni∣uersall nature, which he  cannot exceed or transcend, being a finite creature, and no infinite Creator.
Miracles, of the first kind, are raising from the dead the son of the widow of Sarepta, by Alias 3. of the kings, 17. the dividing the water of Iordan with Alias cloak, 4. of the Kings 2. the curing of the sick by S. Pals handkercher, Act. 5.19. the raising Lazarus by our blessed Saviour, and the like.

Miracles of the second kind, are all the works of the Enchanters of Egypt, Exod. 7. which were only devilish sleights, cunning  imitations, counterfeits, and Diaboli∣call resemblances and shadows of the true miracles, wrought by Almighty God, in the hand of his servant Moses.

If this miracle, or this miraculous detection of Witches by water, be of this later kind, it is of the Devil; and is not to be esteemed or named, where the Name of God is feared or called upon.

For although the cunning fraud of the Devil, above and

beyond all capacity of the weak sense and understanding of man, doe so lively oft-times cast before our eyes, the outward shape and similitude of the miracles of God, that man is not able easily to distinguish them, or at first sight to put a true difference: yet must men studiously, and cir∣cumspectly be advised herein, lest rashly they confound, or equal the vile and abject illusions of that damned creature the Devil (though never so wonderful in our eyes) unto the infinite power of the Almighty Creator, in his true and truly created miracles, which is an high dishonour unto our God, and accursed impiety.
For this cause, the holy Scripture hath admonished and warned the weakness of humane understanding, not to be transported by signs and wonders, nor to trust or give credit to every miracle: and our Saviour himself, Math. 24. verse. 24. doth furnish his Disciples with careful war∣ning herein. And S. Iohn, in his Revelation fore-telleth, that in the latter days and times, the Devil and the great Whore of Babylon, shall with great signs, wonders, and miracles, seduce and deceive the last ages, and people of the world.

Since then miracles are of no validity, except certainly and truly known to be of God; and since also it is not easy for every Spirit to discern therein; let vs duly exa∣mine and sift this our supposed and proposed miracle in the trial and detection of Witches. Petrus Gregorius Tholo∣sinus in his Syntagma Iuris, lib. 2. cap. 12. in a tractate con∣corning the Relics and Monuments of Saints, together with miracles, doth give very honest, sound, and substanti∣all direction.

First, that all credited miracles be found and allowed by religious laws and authority.

Secondly, that the persons by whom they are first reuea∣led or known, or by whom they are avouched, be testes ido∣nei, omni{que} exception majors, that is, that they be worthy witnesses of undoubted and unstained credit and worth, free from all just exception, of holy life, and unstained conuer∣sation.

Without these cautions (saith he) no miracles ought to be esteemed, or received as of truth.
How far our vulgar trial of Witches, by the supposed miraculous indication and detection of them by the water, is different from this care or respect, this equity, religion, or humanity, common practise doth openly declare, when without allowance of any law, or respect of common ciui∣litie, every private, rash, and turbulent person, upon his own surmise of a Witch, dare barbarously undertake by uncivil force and lawless violence, to cast poor people bound into the water, and there detain them, for their own vain and foolish lusts, without sense, or care of the shameful wrong, or injury, which may befall oft-times in∣nocents thereby.

Though this kind of trial of a Witch, might happily prove in it self worthy to be allowed, yet is it not in e∣very private person iustifiable, or tolerable, or without warrant of authority in any sort excusable. The manner therefore of this vulgar trial, must needs with just and honest minds, vncontrouersedly, and undoubtedly, be rustical, barbarous, and rude. Now to return again into the truth of the miracle it self in this trial.

First, let vs enquire with Petrus Gregorius, what religious laws or authority have admitted it as true.

Secondly, what religious, reverend, judicious, grave, or holy Spectators, or eye-witnesses doe avouch it. Let vs yet farther proceed with the same Author, in the fore-named Syntagma, lib. 34. cap. 21. and by some other rules, farther examine this miracle, if it be well and duly avouched and credited, concerning the being thereof, whether that being be not a being of the Devil, & of his miracles, Conatus om∣nis Daemonum (saith the Author) vnum habit generalem sco∣pum, operibus Dei se obijcere, ei debitum honorem subfurari, pios hominum animos sibi lucre facere, & a vero Deo retrahere. That is, the works of the Devil have one general scope; namely, to oppose themselves against the works of God, to rob God of his honour, to draw the hearts of men



from God, and to gain them unto himself. Let vs now consider the fore-named miracle by these rules.
Concerning the approbation thereof by any religious laws or authority, I have never read my self, nor have heard by others, of any authentike suffrage from classical Author, and with good reason, I may conceive and judge a nullity therein.

Concerning any religious, learned, and judicious Specta∣tors and auouchers of this miracle, whose faith and credit may be wholly free from al just exception, it hath ever been a difficult and hard task to furnish any true sufficiency or competency in this kind, though multitudes and swarms of deceived Vulgars, continually and violently obtrude their fantastical sominations. Since then as yet there doth no manifest law stand up to patronage this miracle, and the learned, religious, and holy man able to discern and judge, and free from exception, is not at all, or hardly to be produced or found to avouch or countenance it true; it may be with good reason suspected, and that reason may justly dissuade all sudden, rash, or hasty credit or trust thereof. Now let vs examine, if it were undoubtedly to be assumed as true, whether being true, it be not as truly of the Devil. And first let vs consider, whether it doe not op∣pose the works of God, which was the first direction of Gregorius. It is herein truly convicted, because the novel∣tie and supposed miraculous force and might thereof, doth first usually and easily intise unsettled brains, rashly to for∣sake the ways of judgment and judicious legal prose∣ding, which is the ordinance and work of God: secondly, doth embolden staggering and unresolved minds presump∣tuously without warrant to expect, to ask or seek a sign or miracle, which ordinarily or unnecessarily required, our blessed Saviour overtly condemns, Math. 16. An adult∣rous and vnbeleeuing generation doth seek a sign or mi∣racle. And as herein it directly opposes against the decree and work of God, so likewise by giving occasion and way, that supposed miracles may become vulgarly common and
ordinary, whereby the true miracles and miraculous works of God also may grow with vndiscerning men of less esteem, vile and of no account. Name miracula Dei assiduitate viluerunt (saith S. Augustine) the miracles and miraculous works of God, being oft seen, become of small or no reputation. The second trial of a false miracle, was the robbing of God of his due honour and praise, which in this proposed miracle is partly proved; by making the extraordinary work or use of miracles ordinary, and there∣by derogating from the power, worth and nature of Gods true miracles (as is beforesaid): partly by unthankful un∣der-valewing, omitting, or relinquishing the ordinary means of trials and detections of doubtful truths, which God hath made & given in his good grace; and therefore their contempt and neglect is a manifest robbing of God of his due praise and glory therein. The third trial of the Di∣uels property in miracles, was the seducing of men's hearts from God unto himself, which in our supposed miracle may be necessarily concluded. For if the miracle it self be upon good grounds before alleged, rightfully deemed to bee of the Devil; it must necessarily follow, that whatso∣ever esteem or reputation is given thereto, is a secret sacrifice of ignorance or superstition unto the Devil, and an hidden and covert seduction from God: and thus hath been proved, or at least, with good reason alleged. First that the trial of Witches by water, is not natural or ac∣cording to any reason in nature. Secondly, if it be extraordi∣nary and a miracle, that it is in greater likelihood and pro∣bability a miracle of the Devil to ensnare, then any mani∣fest miracle of God to glorify his name, which is the true end of right miracles. Concerning the other imagined tri∣else of Witches, as by beating, scratching, drawing blood from supposed or suspected Witches, whereby it is said that the fits or diseases of the bewitched do cease miraculously; as also concerning the burning of bewitched cattle, where∣by it is said, that the Witch is miraculously compelled to present her self.




These, and the like, I think it vain and needless, parti∣cularly or singly to confute, because it doth directly ap∣pear, by their examination, according to the former rules produced against the naturalising of the detection of Witches by casting them into the water, that first they are excluded out of the number of things natural: secondly, that being reputed as miracles, they will also be rather justly judged miracles of the Devil, then of God, by the former reasons which have stripped the supposed miracu∣lous detection of Witches by the water, of any hopeful o∣pinion that they can be of God.
Nor doth our law now in force, differ here from re∣jesting such like miraculous trials. See the trial by Ores•l abolished by Parliament the third year of Henry the third, Coke 9. Rep. Case Abbot de Strata Mercella Foal. 33.


CHAP. XV. The exploration of Witches, by supernatural revelations in the bewitched, by signs and secret marks, declared by the be∣witched, to be in the body of the suspected Witch, by the touch of the Witch curing the touched bewitched.
THere remain as yet other miraculous explorations of a Witch, carrying in their first view a far more won∣dred representation then any or all the former explorati∣once. One is, when persons bewitched, shall in the time of their strange fits or trances nominate or accuse a Witch, and for a true testimony against him, or her, thus nomi∣nated, shall reveal secret marks in his or her body, never before seen or known by any creature; nay, the very words or works, which the supposed, or thus nominated Witch shall be acting or speaking in far distant places, even in the very moment and point of time, while they are in acting or speaking; all which I have sometimes my self heard and seen proved true. This is reputed a certain



conviction of a witch. An odor miraculous trial of a Witch and like unto this, wonderful is; when a supposed Witch required by the bewitched, doth touch him or her (though when unknown or unperceived by the bewitched them∣selves,) yet according to the prediction of that issue by the bewitched, he or she immediately are delivered from the present fit or agony, that then was upon him or her, which I have also my self seen. For the better discovery of truth in these so wondered difficulties, let vs first recall to mind these few observations in our former Treatise determined and proved. First, that the Devil doth many miraculous and supernatural things merely simply and alone of him∣self, for his own ends, and without the instigation or as∣association of a Witch. This was made manifest by his con∣ference, disputation and speech with Eua after a miracu∣lous manner, out of the body of the Serpent, when as yet neither Witch, nor Witch-craft were come into the world. Secondly, that the Devil is able to obtrude or impose his supernatural or miraculous works upon men, against their knowledge, liking, will, or affection, and being unre∣quired. This is clear by his transuection of the body of our blessed Saviour, as also by his violent casting of the by∣dies of the possessed, amongst the people mentioned in the Gospel. Thirdly, let vs not here forget specially, that he is able to transmit and send unto, or into men vnrequired, and without their desire or assent, secret powers, force, know∣ledge, illuminations, and supernatural revelations. This was proved by the possessed in the Gospel, who from a secret and hidden revelation and power, above and beyond themselves, were able to utter that high mystery, as yet hid∣den from the world, that Iesus was the Son of the living God. This could not be known unto them, by their own reason or nature, being above and beyond all reason or na∣ture, and by grace only then begun to be revealed unto the blessed Disciples themselves. To think that the posses∣sed could have that knowledge equally with the Disciples by the same grace, were impious derogation from their


Apostolical privilege and prerogative therein, unto whom did properly belong the first fruits thereof alone.
This supernatural revelation therefore was transfused into the possessed by the Devil, who could not be ignorant of the Lyon of Juda, the mighty destroyer of his spiritual kingdom, long before the disciples were borne, or capable of knowledge. And thus having recalled these observations, from them doe issue these necessary inferences. First, that all supernatural acts or works in men, are not to bee im∣putted unto those men. Secondly, that for this cause those supernatural works, are only to be imputed unto men which the Devil, according unto contract or Cove∣nant which those men doth practise and produce.

And for this cause, in the inquisition of Witch-craft, when we have truly first detected an act, done by a spiri∣tuall and supernatural force (because it is in all laws in∣iurious, to accuse of any act, before it be certainly known the act hath been committed) then, and not before, wee ought endeavour directly and necessarily to prove the contract, consent, and affection of the person suspected, un∣to, or in that supernatural act, that being no less essenti∣all, to detect and discover the true and undoubted Witch; then the supernatural act, being certainly apparent, doth undoubtedly prove the Devil, and his power therein.

This equal regard, in case of Witch-craft, ought to bee carefully balanced, without which vain and unstable men shall ever at their lust and pleasure, upon affections and pas∣sions, be privileged with impunity, to lay unjust impu∣tations, and to use wrongful violence and oppression be∣yond all equity, or reason.

When therefore men that are prudent, judicious, and able to discern, doe first advisedly upon good ground and reason, adjudge a supernatural act evidently done, or at least worthy to be suspected: secondly, shall by just and reasonable proof, or at least lively and fair presumption detect the contract, affection, or consent of any man in that act; then and not before, is the accusation, inquisition


and indictment of Witch-craft, against any man equal and just.
For since a supernatural work can be truly and simon∣ply no act of a natural man, and is the immediate hand and power of a Devil (as is formerly proved) it is the mans consent, contract and covenant alone, in the act with the Devil, that being detected and discovered, doth in∣fallibly and essentially prove him a Witch, and not the act itself.

These observations, and considerations, first necessarily prefixed, let vs now proceed unto the two former pro∣pounded experiments of the miraculous detection of Witches.

It is necessarily true, that it can solely proceed from a supernatural power, that the bewitched are enabled in their trances, to fore-tell the sequel of the supposed Witches touch: likewise, that the nominated Witch, shall accordingly by her touch immediately free and dispossess the Sick or the bewitched of their agonies.

It is as necessarily true also, that it can solely proceed from a supernatural power, that the bewitched are able in their trances to nominate the most secret and hidden marks in the bodies of the suspected Witch, her present speech  and actions in far distant places, and the like, but whether these miraculous Revelations, with their an∣swerable events, ought to bee esteemed just conuictions of the persons thus by a supernatural finger, pointed out and noted; as also whether they proceed of God or of the Devil, is very material, to examine and con∣cider.

If they proceed from God, their end, their extraordi∣nary necessity and use, bent solely unto the immediate special glory, or extraordinary glorification of God there∣in, will evidently declare.

What more extraordinary glorification of God can be pretended in the needfulnesse of a miraculous detection of Witch-craft, then of any other sin committed, as im∣mediately


against God, and with as high an hand? Witch-craft is indeed one kind of horrid renunciation, and for∣saking of God, but there are many more kinds much more hellish then this secret and concealed defection: as the o∣pen cursings, wilful blasphemings, and spiteful railings up∣on God, even unto his face, professed hatred and contempt of God.
Among many Offenders in these kinds, after their own long provoking continuance therein, and Almighty God his unspeakable long suffering and patience: some few sometimes have been made hideous spectacles and ex∣amples unto the rest, of the infinite powder and justice of God, his unsufferable displeasure, indignation and direful revenging wrath. In this number was, for some time No∣buchadneser, and Pharaoh King of Egypt, and in later times Iulian the Apostate, and others the like. Many other as high Blasphemers, and despisers of God, notwithstanding have been permitted to escape any such miraculous punish∣mints, or fearful notorious exposings unto the worlds view.

Rabshakeh, railing on the living God, in the open view and hearing of the men of Israel, and Olofernes denying the God of heaven, were not miraculously, or by any immedi∣ate hand of God smitten, but were suffered to grow on, until their harvest of confusion was ripe. That high degree of blasphemy against the Son of the living God, hanging upon the Cross for the sins of mankind, committed by the cruel and hard-hearted Jaws, in scorning, scoffing, and spiteful derision both of God in heaven, Math. 27, verse 43. and also of the eternal Saviour of the world, descended from heaven, was not by God then extraordinarily reuen∣general (as the incomparable greatness of the sin might seem to require) but was in Almighty God his just judge∣meant, suffered, until in the due time, their own execrate∣once, and cursings of themselves, and their posterity, there∣by to hasten and purchase the effusion of that holy inno∣cent blood, did fall upon them so heavily, that their whole

Nation, People, and Kingdom, became extirpate, vile, and vagabond for ever upon the face of the earth. It is re∣corded in the Revelation, chap. 13. verse 5, 6, 7. concerning the Beast, that he opened his mouth unto blasphemy a∣against God, his Tabernacle, and the Saints; that he spake great mighty blasphemies, yet power was given unto him to continue, and prevail therein many years, and a large space of time.
By these few examples it is evident, that neither the height, the nature, the quantity, not the quality, of the most abominable, or provoking sin, most odious unto God and men, doth usually, or always draw down from heaven upon it self a miraculous immediate hand of Gods wrath. We may easily instance the like, concerning the sin of witch-craft, which is our particular subject.

Although by the hand of his holy servant Saint Paul, Al∣mghty God did miraculously smite the Sorcerer Elymas, & as writers report, Simon Magus, by the hand of St. Peter, multitudes and societies of other Sorcerers, and South∣sayers among the Caldeans, escaped not only the hands of Nebuchadneser, in his wrath; but as it seems in the pro∣phecy of Daniel, they lived many years in high esteem, fame, and renown, both in their own Nation, and also in foreign Countries, yea through the world. There is no doubt, that Egypt likewise did abound with swarms of Sorcerers, as the holy Scripture, and all times and writers report. Among the people of God also, the Israelites, it is manifest that divers Sorcerers and Witches did shrowed themselves, and lived with impunity, as appears by the Witch of Endor, which king Saules severity, in their goner∣all extirpation thorough the whole kingdom, had notwith∣standing passed by, and left unespied; as also by that special note and commendations, from Gods own mouth and word of Joshua, that is, that he had taken away from amid∣dest his people, all the Enchanters and Sorcerers: by which it is likely and cannot be denied, that through the lenity or carelessness of former Princes, they formerly had long se∣curely


their breathed. That God doth not use by miracles to detect all, or most Enchanters, Magicians, or Witches, is farther made undoubted; because it should follow then & thence necessarily, that he hath both in the first ages of the world, ordained laws, and ordinary, legal courses of pro∣ceeding against them in vain; as also for that he doth, in the holy records of his sacred word, make known his De∣cry, that they shall be permitted to live and continue upon the face of the earth among other, and as other vnrepen∣tant sinners, until his second coming, and the last day of eternal doom, Reuelat. chap. 22. verse. 15. without shall be Enchanters. If his Justice and severe judgment should by his miraculous power make so narrow search amongst them, as ordinarily to root them out, it were impossible any one of them should escape his all-seeing revengeful hand, to survive unto his general decreed day of sentence, and dreadful doom, of all kind of sins and sinners, which both in justice unto some, and mercy unto other some, his infinite goodness and wisdom hath decreed, shall not be frustrate. Although therefore Almighty God doth sometimes stretch forth his mighty hand miraculously to smite, or bring into light some horrid sins and sinners, his extraor∣dinary power therein sometimes only extended, at his own good will and pleasure, doth not justify the pre∣sumptuous expectation of the dispensation thereof in any particular. God who is the God of order, and not of con∣fusion, doth nor ordinarily dispense his extraordinary works, nor usually confound indifferently, so different na∣tures in their end and use, and his own decree. Nature it self doth also teach an impossibility in that which is ex∣traordinary, to become or be expected ordinary. In that way which is ordinary, the industruous, the diligent, the provident man therefore doth with careful perceive∣rance uprightly walk. The slothful, only the intemperate, the improvident man, either by folly or ignorance loses or by idle sloth forgetteh, or omitted, his ordinary way or opportunity, and ridiculously hops or trusts unto


the redemption thereof, by extraordinary contingents or events.
Thus it hath appeared, that in regard of any more speci∣all or extraordinary glorification of God, in the detection of Witches, rather then of other as great and as abomi∣noble sinners, their is no needful or necessary use of myra∣cles.

The second consideration was, whether they are not ra∣there of the Devil, then of God; as also, how they may be any just conuictions of the supposed or suspected guilty.

Wee will first herein examine the touch of the supposed Witch, immediately commanding the cessation of the sup∣posed fits of the bewitched. That this is a false or Diaboli∣call miracle and not of God, may be justly doubted.

First, because the holy and blessed power of working mi∣racles (among which, the healing the Sick or the possessed was not the least) was never of God dispensed, to haunt or follow the touch of wicked men, or Sorcerers or Witches.

Secondly, for that the true miracles of God (which were ever dispensed, either for the common good of his Church, or the declaration of his glorious truth, or for the extraor∣dinary punishment and destruction of evil men) did never obscurely, or indirectly, prove themselves or their ends, but in their manifestation were enabled to ouer-shine clearly, all the fogs and mists of doubt or question.

The contrary hereunto in this our suspected miracle is manifest, wherein is ridiculously imagined, that the blessed gift and virtue of healing the sick, descended from God above, may be reputed in the hands of a Witch a sign or testimony of his or her guilt and impiety, which ever hath been, and is in it self a special grace and favour of God, and was ever used rather as a confirmation of the truth of Gods Ministers and servants. Let vs now consider how this miraculous touch and the efficacy thereof, may be any just conviction of a Witch. No man can doubt that the virtue wherewith this touch was endued, was supernatural. If it bee supernatural, how can man, unto whom nothing simon∣ply

is possible, that is not natural, bee justly reputed any proper Agent therein? If he cannot bee esteemed in himself any possible or true Agent, then it remains, that he can only bee interested therein, as an accessory in consent; as a Solicitor or Tenant unto a superior power. If that superior power (as is before proved in the falsehood of his miracle) be the Devil, the least rea∣sonable doubt remaining whether the Devil alone, or with the consent or contract of the suspected person hath pro∣ducat that wonderful effect: with what Religion or rea∣son can any man rather incline to credit the Devils infor∣motion in the mouth of the bewitched (who is the common accuser of God to men, and of men to God) then in requi∣site pity, piety, and humane respect unto his own kind to tender the weakness of frail man, against the subtlety of the deceitful Devil. Shall man with man find less fa∣uour, then the Devil with man against man? That the Di∣uell is able by the permission of God, to annex or hang this miracle upon this or that particular, is manifest, by the possessed in the Gospel; upon whom and their natural a∣ctions and motions, he cast supernatural consequences or concomitances. Was not their speech attended with super∣natural revelation, their hands with supernatural force, to rend and tear in pieces iron chains and bonds? If the Devil be able to transfuse, or cast these miraculous con∣comitances or consequences alone, and without allowance of any man or person where God doth permit; how is it in any equity or reason just, that these impositions of the Di∣uell should be imputed unto any man? God forbid, that the Devils signs and wonders, nay his truths should be∣come any legal allegations or evidences in law. We may therefore conclude it unjust, that the forenamed miracu∣lous effects by the Devil wrought and imputed by the be∣witched, should be esteemed a sign or infallible mark a∣against any man, as therefore convinced a Witch, for that the Devil and the bewitched have so deciphered him. These like miraculous stratagems may be exercised vpō any man,
or unto any mans actions may be deceitfully or fraudu∣lently by the Devil conioined or opted. This therefore doth not infer any mans guilt therein. It ought be a mans own proper contract therein with the Devil, noses∣sorely and directly proved, that shall justly condemn him. This contract may be and is plainly detected, by sifting and considering, that mans voluntarily assisting or promoting, promising, or undertaking such supernatural works, with answerable performance thereof. As hath been said, con∣corning the miraculous consequence of the touch of a su∣spected Witch; so may be determined concerning the su∣pernaturall revelations of secret marks or signs in her body, according unto the prediction of the bewitched, as also of the discovery of the presentations, gestures, and speeches of supposed Witches in far distant places. Di∣uers examples I my self have seen in these kinds: I must necessarily acknowledge a more then natural power there∣in, because far beyond the nature, reason, or power of man. But there is notwithstanding sufficient matter of doubt, whether such revelations, secret signs, and marks, though found in the named persons or parts true, as also the right pourtraitures & shapes of the supposed or accused Witches, though never of the bewitched before seen, and yet by the bewitched truly described there is, I say, not∣withstanding, sufficient matter of doubt, whether they are not very insufficient to charge or accuse any particular thus pointed out or marked. The Law and express command∣meant of God doth allow of no revelation from any other Spirit, but from himself, Isa. 8.19. Whether these reave∣lotions are immediately of God, if their due examination by the rule of his Word  doe not clearly determine, rash or hasty perturbation or passion ought not presume it. The laws of men also admit no supernatural illuminations or revelations, as any grounds of just trials or decisions of right or truth. It follows therefore necessarily, that they are void, & ought to be of no force or credit in upright judge∣meant with just and righteous men. It may bee objected,


that truth is found in these revelations, and truth ought be of regard. It may hereto again bee replied, that al∣though truth in it self be great, and ought and will pre∣uaile; yet in the abuse, evil use, or corrupted, or depra∣ued end thereof, it ought not deceive nor is of force. The Devil, as all other cunning liars and deceivers and imi∣tators of that his art, usually mix truths with lies, that those truths giving credit unto lies, men may believe both and so be deceived. It was ever the only safe way of lying, to face and guard it with some plausible truths. In the former revelations therefore, representations and true descriptions in the bewitched, of persons of secret marks and signs, of speeches, gestures, and the like, al∣though the Devil be found true, or speaking truth, yet may he notwithstanding happily bee therein also a liar, while truly describing their persons, shapes, marks, man∣ners and gestures, speeches and the like, he falsely and lie∣ingly adds thereby a seeming or deceiving necessity of their guilt, as if therein or thereby necessarily inferred. The fallicy illusion and the lyingly true revelations of the Devil, may by many examples be manifested. Ianus Iaco∣bus Boissardus in his tract. de Divination Chap. 5. repor∣teeth an admirable story of a noble Gentleman his familiar friend, and known unto himself. This man flying from his own native Country for fear of punishment for a murder by him committed, and living in far distant coasts, desired curiously to enquire what his wife was in his absence doing, whom he had (being very fair young and beautiful) married two months only before his depar∣ture or voluntary exile. For this purpose he came unto a Magician living in the place of exile, who lively described unto him the true fashion, building, and ornaments of his house where his wife in his absence lived, her apparel, countenance, & the like, as they were perfectly foreknowne unto himself. He farther expecting to learn what she was at that present instant doing. The Magician made known that there was then in her company a beautiful young


man with his hose or breeches about his heals standing near or close unto her. Upon the known truth of the Magician his first description of his house and wife, the gentleman assuring himself of the truth of the second de∣scription of seeming manifest adultrey in her, secretly steals home with an absolute resolution by murdering of her to be revenged, & coming home by stealth near un∣to the place where his house & her dwelling was, by a ring (which as an infallible testimony of her true love she had delivered unto him at his departure) he immediately caused her to come unto him. Her kind and loving entertain∣meant so qualified and mollified his intended rage and fury, that he had patience first to confer with her, which before his sight of her, he did not intende. After her conference he demanded whether such a day (naming the certain day) she did not wear apparel of such a colour and fashi∣on. She answered with wonder that it was true. He again demanded what that was which she smothed and handled in her hand, and who that young man was which stood near her with his hose about his heals. She hereat amazed and perceiving the sudden change of a fierce and cruel look in her husband, desired him to be pacified and better informed. The young man was his own brother who could witness the truth thereof, and that which she smoothed or stroked in her hand was a plaster which she did smooth for him and applied unto his hip, where he had a very grievous and painful ulcer. This being found true, the hus∣band sorrowed for his bloody intention, and detested the execrable and damnable Art of the Magician, and the foul lying truth of the Devil. How foully likewise many o∣there men by these like dark and double dealing truths, equiuocations, and amphobologies, have been deceived consulting with the devil and his oracles may be by many other examples testified. The same Author mentions the oraculous revelation by dream presented unto the daughter of Polycrates of Samos. It was revealed unto her that her father should be taken up into heaven, be washed


by Iupiter and anointed by the Sun. This after proved true but in a dreaming sense. For Polycrates being surprised by Orantes, was hanged up toward heaven upon an high Cross, where Jupiter (that is the ayre) with his moisture did wash him, and the Sun melting his grease and the substance of his flesh did so anoint him as was least imagined or suspe∣cted. Plutarke in the life of Anniball reports that Anniball consulted with the oracle concerning his own reserved destiny or end. The oracle answered that Libissa land should bury his corpse. Hereupon he presumed that he should re∣turn into that his own country and therein his old age die. He grew therefore secure and careless. But shortly af∣terward being taken by the Romans in a little obscure village by the sea coast called by the name of Libissa, he there grew weary of his life and poisoned himself in the Devils truth: behold untruth and deceit. Libissa buried Anniball, but not Libissa by Anniball either known or pos∣sible to be imagined. These examples are sufficient whereby is plainly seen the dangerous deceitful fallacy of the devil even where he speaks truth. Let vs now returns again unto our former miraculous prediction of the Devil by the mouth of the bewitched concerning the cure of the bewitched by the touch of the supposed Witch. We may boldly affirm that in this case or in any other, if it were possible for the devil to speak the truth, truly, wholly, vnpartially; so as it might appear plain, evident, mani∣fest; yet ought we not from him believe it or receive it. This is in our blessed Saviour made undoubted, who in the Gospel oft rebuked him even speaking truth, as also in S. Paul rebuking the Pythonisse, truly affirming, and ac∣knowledging him the servant and Minister of God. If the devil then speaking truth, may not be allowed or credited; how shall revelations, miracles or oracles proceeding from him, be they never so true, or approved with any show of true Religion or reason, become any just probations or al∣legations in law, equity or justice? it may be objected, that many times men have bin by dreams and visions admoni∣shed


of secret and concealed hideous murders, and o∣there evil facts committed privily, whereby the Male∣factors and their guilt have bin admirably produced unto due punishment. This truth is even by Heathen Authors witnessed, and in our time the like have hap∣ned, and is testified by witnesses, whose faith and credit is free from all exception. Although this be true and can∣not be denied, some reasons notwithstanding doe per∣swade that it is more safe to incline, to suspect that these like visions or dreams are rather of the Devil, then rashly to determine or decree that they are immediately of God. First, for that though happily they might be sometimes so granted, yet ought we not too swiftly or suddenly so be∣leeue, for that by the lively counterfeit of the true visions, dreams and revelations of God, the Devil hath ever usually practised to be taken and esteemed as God: the allowance whereof by men is high blasphemy against God, and ignorant occult adoration of Devils. Secondly, for that no visions, dreams, or revelations, ought to be esteemed of God, originally or immediately, which doe respect or answer curiosity of knowledge or desire, as most of the forementioned kinds usually are wont. Thirdly, for that the visions of God, as they are ever bent unto an extraordinary, divine end, and an universal good, so are they ever dispensed by the ministry of men, who have manifest commission, or warrant from God, either mediate, or immediate. The mediate is proved by the manifestation of the means: the immedi∣ate, by the evident reflection of a manifest divinity, in the power and authority thereof. For as it is said of the word of God, Hob. 4. verse 12. so must it necessarily be con∣cluded of all the true miracles, visions, or revelations of God, that they are lively, and mighty in operation.
This is seen in the miracles wrought by Moses, which the Sorcerers themselves could not deny to bee the finger of God, Gen. 8. verse 19. This is likewise seen in


Simon Magus, who could not but acknowledge the mi∣raculous power of the holy Ghost, by the laying on of the Apostles hands, so far forth that in the con∣sideration of his own guilt, and of a conuincing power or deity therein, he desired them to pray for him.
The same is also witnessed in the servants of the high Priests who being sent with wicked malice, and cursed prejudice to entrap and betray our Saviour, were by the miraculous power of his word and works compel∣led to proclaim and confess; No man ever spake like this man. All these notes or marks, of the true visions, dreams, or revelations of God, are ever generally, or for the most part wanting in the forementioned kinds, which being never free from some suspicious note of godly jealousy, therefore ought not but with much doubt and difficulty be at any time admitted. It may bee as yet further objected. How can it otherwise bee deemed, then that God himself is the Author of the former revelations, since they tend unto his glory in the detecting and punishing of so hideous sins? It is hereto answered, that Almighty God is able to use and command evil instruments unto good ends. He hath ordained the Devil himself to be the common accuser of all sins and sinners. It is therefore no in∣convenience nor repugnant unto religion or reason, to affirm, that the Devil himself, in the fore∣mentioned visions or dreams, by the commandment or permission of God, is the producer of the fore-men∣tioned murders, evil facts, unto light and judgment. God for his own glory permits the Devil by these his wonderful revelations, to detect the named sins and sinners. The Devil also for his own end, and de∣sire of their destruction, doth execute the Decree of God for their just punishment.

But here may be objected again, that the Devil



in his revelations (as is before mentioned) is not to be believed or credited, although he spake truth. How then may men be allowed, to admit or make use of these his visions or dreams in this kind.
It is hereto replied, Almighty God himself doth both permit and hear the Devil when he accuses, as is manifest by holy Scriptures. Therefore among men, and by men also, his accusations may be heard and considered. Notwithstanding, since he is oft a false Accuser, and the enemy of God and truth, he may not bee credited in himself, no nor truth it self simply as in his mouth. Upon his accusation therefore, if truth and certainty doe declare it self, the force and virtue thereof, and not the accusation doth con∣duct, upright men and minds, unto proceeding and judgment; it is not the Devils accusation, but the truth it self, unto which happily that accusation did point inquisition, that by it self made manifest, is there∣fore credited.

And thus with brevity hath the vanity both of all superstitious, and also of all miraculous ways of the detection of Witches and Witch-craft, been in some few of their particulars generally unmasked. There are, and may bee many more besides these, which in these, and with these, will likewise perish and vanish, being by the same rule and reason compelled unto the golden trial of sincere religion and affecti∣on.

The sole, true and warranted way, wherein up∣rightly men may walk herein before God and men, hath been in this Treatise formerly disquired and dis∣coursed. Therein (intelligent Reader) thou may observe two sorts of manifest Witches: The one is offered unto the outward sense, in his apparent and palpable Sorceress works: The other is made eui∣dent by plain demonstration out of the sacred word


of truth. It hath ever prevailed with vulgar custom (because most sensible of the most gross harms more open to sense) to cast chiefly, or for the most part, the eye and common jealousy upon the first kind. The other kind (because usually lest noted of sense, and therefore esteemed least harmful to men) is both in the just protraction or production thereof unto the bar of Justice much more rare and seldom, and al∣so in common and vulgar observation is little or not at all considered.
Hence it proceeds, that most men doe doubt∣fully resolve thereof; Yea, some men admire a worth therein, others esteeeme it of reasonable and com∣mandible use, unto the satisfaction of their curiosities, in things secret and hidden from the knowledge of man.

But since Almighty God hath more specially (as is in the former Treatise proved) both given most certain and plain indication, and information of this kind, by the expressed fruits thereof, and the necessary inference of familiarity and consultation with other Spirits then himself, Isaiah 8. verse 19. and hath also so oft in so divers places iterated the great abomination, and his high detestation thereof, it is not only the saving duty of all private men to take more diligent and wary notice thereof, there∣by to eschew and fly from it, according unto Gods express charge and command; but it is the charge of Princes and Magistrates also, to fulfil thereby the commanded execution of Gods holy wrath and vengeance upon it; for which pleasing service and sacrifice unto him, Almighty God hath upon the everlasting records of his holy word fixed for ever the so memorable praise, and commendation of those famous Princes, who have dedicated themselves un∣to his will therein. As it hath been declared by

what means Witches and Sorcerers, in two kinds severally may be manifestly charged, challenged, and proved as certain and undoubted Offenders: so also how far presumption probabilities, or matter of just suspicion in both may blamelessly guide, and conduct upright and equal inquisition, hath been briefly instanced. From all which it is evident: first, that God in nature hath not shut up in this subject, the common entrance and door of judging, trying or deciding as equally, as in other cases: secondly, that beside and beyond that way, which God hath left open unto sensible and reasonable progress, herein it must necessarily bee preposterous presump∣tion to break out, or ouer-reach, as also in stead of that plain approved and authentike walk for the trials of truth; the judgment and condemnation of others, and the establishment of men's own thoughts, and minds, to seek irreligious footing, in the Labyrinth of amazing wonderments, and reason∣less traditions and experiments. To walk in these ways, is no better then to run away from God, in whom to trust, though with some restraint, and coertion of our longing vain desires, and satisfacti∣once, is truly far more happy then out of the con∣duct of his allowance therein, to enjoy the fullest measure or overflow of all the most obsequious in∣fluencies of humane bliss. If true religion and piety could settle this consideration, the common folly of misgoverned, petulant, inordinate, and intempe∣rate expatiations in this kind, would not only in private men more usually blush and be ashamed, but a more even, straight, and uninterrupted way, be∣ing prepared thereby unto justice, would usually bring forth a much more happy issue, then now is ordi∣nary. Thus far the love of truth, which I have ever carefully sought and studied, hath offered violence

unto my private thoughts and meditations, exposing them unto the hazard of public view.
As my labour is not lost unto my self, and my own more confirmed satisfaction thereby: so if there be therein any good unto the common good, I know, good men will not for the thorne, refuse the fruit, for defect of elegance in stile, or obscurity of worth in the Author, quarrel with the matter it self.

    FINIS.

[1] Scalig. de Subtle. Ex∣ercit. 307. sect. 22.
[b] Omnis syl∣logismus, vel regulates, & rest ratioci∣natio est vel demonstrate∣ua, vel diale∣ctica, Aristot. lib. Analyt.
[c] Dialecticus syllogismus, vel ratiocina∣tio ex propo∣sitionibus Di∣alecticis, vel probabilibus, licit non cer∣ta vt demon∣stratiuus, syl∣logismus, ta∣men vera in∣dicia consti∣tuit, ideo{que} est verarum open∣nionum fons, Aristot. ibid.
[d] Hinc Silo∣gismi perfect & imperfect ratio ex Ari∣stot.
[a] Materiam, Forman. Priuationem.
 Quote non est secundum naturam, non continetur a Scientia, Arrest. Anal. poster.
 Genus more∣bi proximum, cum part af∣fact coniun∣ctum constable∣tuit morbi speciem.
 Angeli bone non possunt peccare, con∣firmati per gratiam. An∣gale mali, per malitiam obe∣stinati non possunt been velle Magist. Sent. did. 7. lib. 2.
 Bone Ange∣li difficile cō∣parent, nec no∣si sum Dei iussa capessunt Fernel. de Abd. Rer. Cause. lib. 1. ca. 11.
 Inter male∣ficium & mer∣um Diaboli opus disting∣uitur. Binssedi∣us Explicat. in praelud. 5. Vt fiat male∣ficium haec tria concur∣runt, nempe Deus permit∣tens, Diaboli potestas, ho∣minis malefi∣ci voluntas li∣bear consent∣ens. Binsfel∣dius de con∣fess. Sagar.
[b] Tacitè in∣uocatur Da∣mon quotes quis contend∣it illud facere per causas nu∣turales quae nec virtute sua natural neque ex di∣vine aut ec∣clesiastica pos¦sunt id facere. Binsfeldius.
 Instrumen∣tum diaboli Serpens. Tree∣melius. Iunius The Serpent did verily speak. It was a true serpent not a shadow. The devil spake in the Serpent as the Angel in the Ass. Dr. Willet.
 Iob. 1. ver. 16
 Oracula e∣dita sunt per¦pudenda pu∣eltae. Morn∣us de rerit. Rel cap. 23. Ex Diodoro.
 Vide Plato∣name in Epino∣mid de viri∣bus & potest∣atibus Hero∣um, quos La∣tini Lemurs dixerunt. De Genies item diis & daemo∣nibus promise cue in coelo, terra, & singu∣lis mundi re∣gionibus di∣stributis vide in Politico. Vide Plato∣name 4. de legi∣bus. Quos ibi Plato promise∣cue Daemo∣nes appellate, Latin his no∣minibus, & qui busdam officiis destine∣xerunt.
 Vide Plato∣name in Epino∣mid de viri∣bus & potest∣atibus Hero∣um, quos La∣tini Lemurs dixerunt. De Genies item diis & daemo∣nibus promise cue in coelo, terra, & singu∣lis mundi re∣gionibus di∣stributis vide in Politico. Vide Plato∣name 4. de legi∣bus. Quos ibi Plato promise∣cue Daemo∣nes appellate, Latin his no∣minibus, & qui busdam officiis destine∣xerunt.
 Vide Plato∣name in Epino∣mid de viri∣bus & potest∣atibus Hero∣um, quos La∣tini Lemurs dixerunt. De Genies item diis & daemo∣nibus promise cue in coelo, terra, & singu∣lis mundi re∣gionibus di∣stributis vide in Politico. Vide Plato∣name 4. de legi∣bus. Quos ibi Plato promise∣cue Daemo∣nes appellate, Latin his no∣minibus, & qui busdam officiis destine∣xerunt.
 Fane Syl∣uani Incubi Dusii Daemo∣nes fuere. August. De Ciuit Dei. Diabolus, Dei aemulus quo se fallacy simi∣litudine insin∣uet in animos simplicium. Casuin. lib 1. Instead. cap. 8. Sect. 2.
[19] De divine. generibus. page. 118.
 Transfor∣motions in cattos aut In∣pos phanta∣stice et per praestigias et non re∣aliter fiune. August. de Ciuit. Dei cap. 18.
 Generatio non est nisi in tempore id{que} apparata ma∣teria per ante∣cossionem∣mutationis, quam Greece 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 recen tiores Ciceroniā maluerunt cōmutati∣onem. Scale. de subt. exer∣cit. 6. sect. 14.
[a] Nature est ordinary Dei potestas. Scalig.
 Nature est vniuersalis, est particularise.
[24] Charmers.
 Things im∣agined and fancied, easily discerned from those things which are real and true objects of the sense.
 Spiritus in∣corpori & à sensibus no∣stress remote operibus con∣spicui. Fernell. 1. de Ab. Rer. cause. cap. 11.
 Angeli bone non possunt peccare, Pet. Lomb. d. 7. l. 2. This doth cōdemne that white Magic or Theourgi• which is sup∣posed or pre∣tended confe∣tence with good Spirits.
 Some Au∣thors doe write, that this man was an holy man, and a man of God. If it may be pro∣ued, that he received those his re∣uelations frō God. I doe subscribe. If it cannot be proved, that he did re∣ceiue them from God, it is most certain, that they were of the Devil, since in super∣natural reave∣lotions there can be no o∣there medium.
 Speed.
 Master Per∣kins in his discourse of Witch craft chap. 3. page. 122. doth di∣uide likewise Witches un∣to such with∣in whom the Devil is not inwardly, but from without doth inspire them and within whom he is, as was the Pytho∣ness at Phil∣lip, Acts 16.16.
[31] Astrologers.
 This kind of Devil is called, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉.
 Page 27.
 Page 29.
[a] Hipp. libro de Sacro m•r¦by de Magic.
[b] Dioscor. li. 2. cap. 102.
[c] Theophra∣stus de hist. Plant. Tralli∣anus. lib. 9. cap. 4.
[d] Galenus li. de Medica Homeri tra∣ctatione.
 Creatio est constitutio substantiae ex nihilo, Scali. de Subt. Exer∣cit. vi. Sect. 13
[40] Wisemen and Wisewomen.
 Qui oculos fallent, alia pro aliis sub∣ditty osten∣tantes, ii prae∣stigi•tores ab antiques dicti sunt. Scaliger. Imposture ab eo dicta, quote adultery∣nas merces, pro veris sup∣ponit, Vlpian. Impostors dicuntur ver∣suti & fallaces homines, qui merces ad∣ulterinas pro veris suppo∣nunt, Accursi∣us.
[a] Ephes. 4.14.
[b] Col. 2.23.
 See Reginald Scot in his discovery of Witch-craft, wherein regard of the seeming likeness of Impostures and Witch-craft, erroneously he confounds them as one and the self same sin.
[45] Examples of Impo∣stur in ge∣nerall.
 Polidorus Virgil lib. 7. cap. vlt.
 Speed.
 Speed.
 Speed.
 Speed.
 Philippe de Commines, book 4. cha. 10. taxes our English Nation for the multitude and vanity of flying Pro∣phecies in this kind.
[52] Examples of imposture under colour of Magic skill or Witch-craft.
 Plurimae atom passi∣ones puerulis iudicantur in septem men∣sibus nonnul∣lae in 7. anno Hipp. Aphor. 28. lib. 3. More∣bi Diutini ad septenarii ra∣tionem ha∣bent Crisim, non septena∣rye quoad menses mo∣do, sed quoad annos. Galen. in dictum Aphorism.
 Page. 58 59 60
 Page 61 62 63 64
 See a Trea∣tise of the Witches of Warbozyes.
 Crimina Meleficorum sunt commu∣nis fori, Per∣tenant ad foe∣rum Ecclesi∣asticum qua∣tenus sunt Haeretici per∣tenant ad foe∣rum secular quatenus cae∣des perpe∣trant in ho∣minibus aut aliis enema∣libus, Bins∣fildius praelud 13.
 Quidam plus aequo tribuunt open∣rationi Da∣monum, Binsfeldius.
 Opinio vera est habi∣tus circa con∣clusiones ex Dialecticis pronunciatis, Arrest. in lib. Analyt.
 Certum est, quote nun∣quam aliter fiat, probabile, quote plerun∣que ita fiat, Cicero.
 Probabilia sunt, quae pro∣bantur aut omnibus, aut plurimis, aut certe sapienti∣bus, & eec si non plurimis, at maxim probates, quo∣rum est spe∣ctata Sapien∣tia, Aristot.
 See Master Perkins dis∣couery of Witch-craft, chap. 2. page. 48.
 Perkins dis∣course of Witch-craft, chap. 2. page. 48.
 Isaiah 8.19.
 Sam. 1.28.8. Exod. Leuit. Deuteron.
 Mast. Perkins in his discourse of Witch-craft, chap. 1. page. 11.
 Perkins chap. 2. page. 48. discourse of Witch-craft.
 She was easy and ready to pro∣fesse, that she renounced God and all his works, but being required to say that she renounced the Devil & all his works, she did refuse it with this addition of the reason, (videlicet) for that the Devil had never done her any hurt.
 Serr•s, from the confession of Witches detected and censured in the reign of Henry 4. of France.
 Non est creator, nisi qui prince∣politer for∣mat: nec quis∣quam hoc potest, nisi vnus Creator Deus. Aug. 3. de Trin.
 Non est creator, nisi qui prince∣politer for∣mat: nec quis∣quam hoc potest, nisi vnus Creator Deus. Aug. 3. de Trin.
 Augustinus 3. de Trin. Alia potest si non prohibe∣tur, Daemon: Alia non pot∣est, etsi per∣mittatur, quē∣admodum homo potest, ambulare si non prohi∣beatur, volare non potest, et∣si permittatur Petr. Lomb. Sent. lib. 2. Did 7.
 Herein the Devil affe∣cteth to imi∣tate the power of God in his holy Prophet, who was able by his divine revelation to make known what the King spake in his Privy Chamber. 2. Kings verse 12. cap. 6. He herein also counter∣fetteth the Divinity of our Saviour, seeing Na∣thaniel, when he was under the Figge-tree. Ioh. 1.48.
 ESTIN AMARTIA ANOMIA. Quicquid non congruit∣cum leg, peccatum est.
