THE MYSTERY OF WITCH-CRAFT. Discovering, The Truth, Nature, Occasions, Growth and Power thereof. TOGETHER With the Detection and Punish∣meant of the same. AS ALSO, The several Stratagems of Satan, ensnaring the poor Soul by this de∣sperate practise of annoying the body: with the several Uses thereof to the Church of Christ. Very necessary for the redeeming of these Atheistical and secure times.
By THOMAS COOPER.

LONDON, Printed by Nicholas Oaks. 1617.


To the right worship∣full, the Mayor and Corporation of the Ancient City of CHESTER; the worthy Justices of Peace, of that County Palatine; Grace and Peace From GOD the FATHER through our LORD IE∣SVS CHRIST be multiplied.
Diverse, and very weighty have been the motives (right Worshipful) to induce me to the Dedication of these my Labours in this kind unto your Worcester∣ships.


The first is, because my first calling from the University, to employ my Ministry for the e∣defecation of the Saints, was by the Governors of your famous City, to succeed that painful and profitable Teacher Master Harrison, who was thence called by the Kings most Excellent Majesty, to be one of the six Teachers to those barren and needful places of the Country of Lancashire. And therefore, having both kind entertainment among you; and by some of you being furthered to a more set∣led Pastoral Charge in that County, I could not but leave some memorial of my thank∣fullness unto you herein.
Secondly, my free admission to that Pastoral Charge, toge∣there with the singular prove∣dence of God, in directing my
Ministry for the informing and reforming of that ignorant People, who never before en∣joyed any constant Ministry, as also his admirable protection and deliverance of me from un∣reasonable men, that used all their force and cunning to hen∣der the proceedings of the Go∣spell of Christ.
As these are specially, which I can never sufficiently remem∣ber and glorify Almighty God for, so have I thought it good to leave this Testimony unto you of my thankful remem∣bronco hereof; who were, ma∣ny of you, acquainted with the good hand of my God upon me in this behalf; especially seeing by an especial occasion at the North-wich, by a child afflicted by the power of Satan, and (as it was conceived) through the confederacy of some Witches thereabout. It pleased the Lord to minister some experience unto me, both of Sedans me∣thods and stratagems in decay∣uing unstable souls, and also of the power of God confounding the wisdom of the world, and taking them in their own craf∣tinesse, did I not then vow to communicate my Experience for the good of the Church? and hath not the Lord given this gracious occasion thereun∣to?
And shall not this mercy of my God bee had in everlasting remembrance, That whereas I come from the University, al∣though furnished happily with some outward helps, and not without some true desire of sa∣uing souls. It pleased God to turn the oppositions of Satan, & contradictions of men to the bettering of my knowledge, and quickening of my zeal for the common good, though in great weakness and corruption: shall not this be a perpetual memo∣real of my thankfulness to those worthy Magistrates, M. Warbar∣ton of Early, M. Marburie of the Mere, & others of that parish, to quicken and encourage them in their zeal and love unto the Gospel?
And seeing it pleased God lately to call me again into those parts, & to employ me by means of some other Worthies in that shire in this special argue∣meant of the discovery of this My∣sterie of Witch-craft; could I doe less then satisfy their just de∣sires herein? and are not they fittest to have some of the fruit (whatsoever it is) of my Labours


and observations herein, who were special occasions and fur∣therers thereof.
These are some of the mo∣tiues (Right worshipful) which have prevailed with me at this time, having now leisure and opportunity (by Gods mercy) to publish my poor endeavours in this kind, and so to dedicate the same unto your Worships. For other special reasons in∣dearing me hereunto, I refer your Worships unto the first chapter of the Treatise ensuing.

Beseeching you not to stay in the Porch and Entrance, but to take the pains to view the whole inward buildings, and furniture of the house. And if you find any thing therein to inform your consciences in the truth of this Doctrine. Let it be a pre∣seruatiue against the secret A∣theisme


that frets like a Began∣grene, and threatens to care out the life and power of Reli∣gion, and to direct your judge∣mints in the sifting and punish∣meant of this mischief.
If you find the subtleties of Satan any whit herein disco∣red, who in the afflictions of the body hunts after the destructi∣on of the soul, and by this tam∣pering with Witches, to afflict the outward man seeks to en∣throne himself in the heart and conscience above all that is cal∣led God: let this also be a means for the better security of your Souls, in the discovery of the good Witches, and renouncing their dangerous helps: Let it provoke you in general, as you [1] are taught hereafter to labour by all means the planting and the countenancing of a settled



and powerful Ministry among you, that thereby Satan may fall like Lightning, his power and policies may be discovered and confounded. For the effecting whereof as my hearty Prayers unto the Almighty shall be dai∣lie made manifest at the Throne of Grace for you and yours: so I doe most heartily commend you all unto his gracious prote∣ction in his son Christ Iesu. In whom I rest
Your Worships ever bounden, THO. COOPER.




THE Particular Contents.
This Treatise is digested into three Books.


In the Former whereof is contained.
FIrst, the Occasion and scope of this Discourse. in Sect. 1. page. 1.
And therein proved that this Doctrine of Witch-craft is necessary to be prose∣cuted and observed in these days. Sect. 2. page. 16. Chap. 1.
Secondly, it is proved that there have been, are, and shall be Witches to the worlds end: both by sound Testimony, 1. from the Word, p. 25. 2. from An∣tiquitie, p. 26. 3. from pregnant rea∣sons, p. 27. and so such Objections an∣swred, as seem to contradict this Truth, page 35. Chap. 2.
Thirdly it is declared; what Witch∣craft properly is: where both the Na∣ture, Causes, and Effects are briefly
opened and applied, page 47.
Wherein is set down, both that Sat•…
1. Can work wonders, p. 52. at also
2. The difference between true Mira∣cles, and Satins wonderful works, p. 54.
3. And so the divers kinds of these won∣ders are discoursed, page 55.
4. Together with the intent, how far, and in what Cases, Satan can effect them, page 55, 56. Chap. 3.
Fourthly, is laid open the policy of Satan, in drawing and uniting ignorant and unstable souls to this Art.
Where first; the Occasions are disco∣red, page 57.
2. Hereupon the manner of Satins working and enueigling to this Trade, page 58.
3. And of his several Impostures, and treacheries therein, against the poor soul. p. 61.
4. And so of the entering his Novices into this School: With the Use thereof, page 62.
5. It is further manifested by what means Satan now confirms, and detai∣neth his Proselites in this mystery: where 〈1+ pages missing〉


1. Of the Covenant, which passes be∣tweene the Witch and Satan to this end: And here first proved that there is such a covenant, p. 65.
2. Of the nature and 〈◊〉 all bond of the covenant is set down.
3. The divers kinds of the Cove∣nants are descried, and so the policy of Satan therein further opened, p. 68.
4. The ground of the Covenant is searched, and therein Sedans policy also detected, p. 69. & 70.
With the Uses thereof, p. 72.
5. The Parts of this covenant di∣stinguished.
1. What Satan binds himself to doe for the Witch, p. 78.
2. Wherein the Witch is bound to the Devil, p. 86.
And the several sleights of Satan, in each conjectured. p. 87. Chap. 5.
Sixtly, is declared what Ceremonies Satan doth accompany this Covenant withal: the better to detain and hold his vassals to the performance thereof:
Whereof the secret Mark of the Witch, p. 88.
2. Of conuenting them into the Church page 90. and there: First.
To renounce their Baptism, p. 91.
2. To offer up their blood in sacrifice to the Devil.
3. Of kissing Satins back parts.
4. Of carnal society by Satan, with Witches, Together with the special sleights of Satan therein, p. 92. and the Use thereof, page 94. Chap. 6.
Seventhly, divers other means a•… laid down, whereby Satan confirms his Proselites, as Cap. 7. page 124.
Divers kinds of Witch-craft are o∣pined, both
1. That which consists in Divinity∣on; wherein first is shawed, p. 128.
That Satan can foretell in some mea∣sure things to come. p. 129.
2. How far he may proceed there∣in, page 131.
Wherein is laid down the difference between Divine and Satanicall predicti∣once, page 132.
3. The divers means are discovered▪ whereby Satan foretells things to come; as, by true Creatures.
As 1. Flight of Birds. page 136.
2. The Entrails of Beasts, ibid.
3. The Observation of the Stars, and heavenly bodies condemned, p. 137. with answer to Objections to Astrology, page 138.
4. Dreams.
5. Lots.
Wherein is set down the right use of these things, Namely
How the Doctrine of the Stars is to be used.
What Dreams are to bee heeded, page 144. and so the difference between divine, and other dreams manifested, p. 135. as also
How Lots are to be used; and herein the perverse abuse of these things disco∣red, and rejected, p. 149.
Secondly, it is declared how Satan de∣ceiues, and foretells things to come by for∣general madness: as, answering in the shape of a Dead body, p. 151. 2. Where it is proved particularly: That the Resem∣blanc appearing to Saul was not true Samuel but Satan in his likeness. p. 152.
Thirdly, it is proved that Satan also

uses to foretell things to come without means, and that either by Real posses∣sing of the souls & bodies of men, p. 155.
Or else by Obsession, and inspiring them with his evil counsels.
Where particularly is declared the differences between Satanicall Reave∣lotions, Exthusiasmes, And▪
Those true and Heavenly Revelations wherewith the true Prophets of God were furnished: to declare the will of the Lord in extraordinary times and occasions▪ page 156.
And so the use thereof commended to the church of Christ Iesus. cha. 8.
It yields further to declare another kind of Witch-craft, which consists in operation. p. 157.
And here first of working Wonders by Charms, that it is unlawful.
Where are answered divers Object∣once seeming to justify them, and so all sorts of Charms condemned, page 158. &c.
Either by Words sacred or profane, page, 160.
Or by making of Characters. p. 167.


Images.
Circles.
Using of Amulets.
Scratching of the Witch.
Exorcisms.
Pictures of Wax, &c.
Together with the use thereof to the Church of God, page 169.
Secondly, it is declared; that strange things are done by Juggling, and decay∣uing of the senses, page 171.
Wherein first, the Manner thereof is set down, page 172.
2. Reasons answered for the Law∣fullness thereof, page 173.
3. It is proved that this is plain Sorcery; and that the Sorcerers of E∣gypped were but plain Jugglers, page 174.
And so 1 Application hereof made to the Church of Christ. Chap. 8.
109. Out of these Grounds thus soundly laid, It is further considered: Who is the Practiser of this Art.
Namely the Witch.
Where first, a Witch is described and lively painted out unto vs, in her seue∣rall


Lineaments and true Proportion: page 117.
Secondly, It is proved, that men as well as women, are Practioners therein. page 180.
Thirdly, And the Policy of Satan discovered in baiting these divers Sects, with fit means to ensnare them with this dangerous hook, page 181
According, both to the diversity of Times, and Estates of the Church: page 183.
And also,
Suitable to the several Conditions and qualities of Nature, p. 184.
And so it is further manifested, that Antichrist hath especially entertained and advanced this Devilish Art, as an especial means to attain and main∣taine his visible Monarchy: page 193 194., &c.
And here is also resolved, what espe∣ciall Places Witches doe most haunt together.
With the Use thereof, page 199. & 200. Chap. 9.


It being apparent what a Witch is, It is now further discovered, how many kinds of Witches there are, p. 203.
And here first of the Bad Witch: page 206.
2. Of the means whereby she exe∣cutes her mischief, namely Cursing: and so, 3. Satins policies herein: page 208. 209.
Secondly, Of the Good Witch:
First, Of her Nature and Condition, p. 211.
2 That her skill in helping is no spe∣ciall gift of God: but attained by the as∣sistance of the Devil. p. 213.
3 Of the means whereby she binds to be helpful. Namely, the belief of men, and here, page 218.
Whether they can help• any that doth not believe: page 219. 220.
Whether the Good Witch can hurt: and the hurting Witch can help? Where the admirable Wisdom and Justice of God is declared, page 224.
And so it is approved that the good Witch is far more dangerous then the bad: p. 232.


And thereupon advice given for her avoidance and apprehension especially, and this in the 10. Chap.
And thus ends the first Book, con∣tayning the Truth, Nature, and Kinds of Witch-craft; together with the pro∣per subject of this Art: and so of her Entrance, Confirmation, and Pra∣ctise therein, as also the several kinds and dangers of them.


The second Book, prose∣death to their Detection, and Conviction: and to this end.
FIrst, sets down the Power and Of∣ficacie of Witch-craft.
Whereby they execute their feats, and several mischiefs, and so draw them∣selves, yet more palpably within the com∣posse of authority.
And here first it is showed where∣in


the power of Witches is restrained, page 230.
And here it is enquired,
Whether the Witch have power to afflict the child of God, and how far: with the uses thereof? page 248.
How in these kinds of afflictions the Elect differ from the wicked, page 253.
Secondly, is declared, wherein the Witches power is apparent:
And here.
First, of the Actions concerning their own persons, p. 257.
Secondly, of their actions towards o∣theirs, p. 258.
And so the Policy of Satan is disco∣uered, in executing and conveying of this power.
1 By natural Medicines, page 262
2 By Prayers, and good Counsels: page 263.
3 By shrouding it under natural di∣seases, and mixing it therewith. 4 And of his notable sleights, and dangerous snares therein, page 265.
And all this Chap 1.
Secondly is discoursed that Witches


ought to be detected.
And to this end.
First, The admirable Wisdom and Justice of God is discovered, in making them instruments of their own confusion page 270.
Secondly, Two principal means are laid down for their Discovery:
Namely, Examination;
And Conviction.
And here.
First, are commended divers weighty presumptions, tending probably to detect the Witch. p. 274.
2, Divers manifest Proofs are ad∣ded, tending to the conviction of the same, page 277.
And so false means of Detection be∣ing rejected, and some doubts answered concerning the same: use is made there∣of to the Church of God. and this is in the second Chap.
Thirdy are discovered the Remedies against Witch-craft.
Whereof the principal is, the Execu∣tion of Authority, in cutting of the Of∣fenders, Both for the practising of their


mischieifes: and also: For Release from the same, p. 280.
And here first is proved, That
These mischiefs may bee prevented: page 282.
2. The means of prevention are laid down.
And these first Preservative, both,
First, such as concern the persons of men, page 284. And
2. Such as concern their Habitati∣once, page 289.
Secondly, to these are added, Re∣storatiue Remedies:
And these:
Either General, to dissolve the works of Satan, p. 293.
Or else:
Special Respecting Private Persons, page 295. And this Chap. 3.
The True Remedies being thus discoursed: Examination is further made of such counterfeit and unlawful means, as are used to the Discovery of Witches.
And here first of
The Gift of Miracles which is


proved, now to bee ceased, and needless heereto, and therefore falsely arrogated, and wickedly forged to the same: where Objections are answered, and the truth cleared, that these are but lying won∣ders accomplished by the power of Satan, page. 297.
As appears by the means whereby they are wrought: Namely;
First, the Name of Iesus, which is not effectual by Divine power to any such ends, p. 302.
Secondly, The Relics of Saints, page 304.
Thirdly, The Sign of the Cross: page 305.
Fourthly, Use of Holy Water, Salt, Images, Agnus Dei, Grains, &c. p. 306
5. Exorcisms, and here it is resolved whether it be lawful to relieve a Witch, and how far it may be done. p. 307. and this in the 4. Cap.
Fiftly is proposed and prosecuted a prin∣cipall Remedy against Witch-craft: Namely, Execution of Justice: and here likewise, First is propounded the just Punishment belonging to this Sin:

that Witches by the Law of God are to die the death, where both objections are answered. page 313.
And the equity of Gods Law cleared and maintained. Chap. 5.
Lastly, by way of conclusion, are laid open the several Uses of this Doctrine of Witch-craft for the further edification of the Church of God.

Here begins the third Book.
THese are, first of Reproof, and that 1 of the Atheism of these Times, sect. 1. page 320.
2 For contempt of the Word. page 322. sect. 2.
3 The Idolatry and false worship of this present age is justly taxed and con∣uinced. page 324. sect. 3.
4 As also the gross profanenesse and general rebellions of the present Genera∣tion. page 325. sect. 4.
5 Lastly, it is a manifest conviction of that damnable hypocrisy, and accur∣sed


dissimulation that reigns in this pre∣sent age. sect. 5. Chap. 1. page 327.
A second general use is for Instruct∣on: and that, First,
Teaching how to avoid and remedy the causes of Witch-craft.
Which are, First, That gross and wilful Ignorance that swarms in the Land, Where is proved, first, That this is a maine cause of Witch-craft. page 329.
2 How this is to be remedied. page 330. chap. 2.
A second cause of Witch-craft, is In∣fidelity.
1 This is proved by many Circum∣stances. page 331.
2 The means laid down how to re∣medie this evil. page 332 chap. 3.
A third cause of Witch-craft, is Malice, declared by many pregnant Reasons. page 334.
2 And the particular means laid down to prevent and remedy this mis∣chief. page 335. chap. 4.
A fourth cause of Witch-craft is
Covetousness, as appears:
1 By many lively Evidences. p. 337
And so we are directed how to remedy this great sin. page 338.
A fifth cause of Witch-craft, is Cu∣riositie, here,
1 The Reasons hereof are discovered. page 339.
2 And the way declared how to meet with this sin. page 341. chap. 6.
The sixth and principal cause of this judgment of Witch-craft is Pride.
As appears,
1 By diverse pregnant Evidences hereof. page 342: and so,
2 We are informed how to encounter this mischief. p. 344. cha. 7.
A second general Instruction is to teach vs hereby the truth of our natural condition, that we are the very slaves of Satan, and vessels of wrath. page 346 chap. 8.
A third general Instruction here is, to teach vs how wee may be freed from this natural bondage, what is the principal means hereunto. page 347. chap. 9.
A fifth general Iustruction, is to teach vs a conscionable and sincere use of all other means of our salvation, as of Prayer, Sacraments, and both con∣corning Preachers and People. page 351. chap. 11.
A sixth general Instruction, is to pro∣uoke vs to sincerity and power of Reli∣gion in all our ways. page 352. chap. 12. page 352.
Aseuenth general Instruction, is to inform vs in the sleights and cunning of Satan, that so we may not be ignorant of his dangerous snares. chap. 13. page 353.
Eightly, here is matter of Instru∣ction, both for the particular trial of our own estates page 354.
As also for the discerning of the true Church of God militant here on earth. chap. 14. page 357.
Ninthly, wee are here instructed.
Both how to behave our selves in gene∣rall under the Cross, especially how to carry our selves in this affliction of Witc∣craft. chap. 15. page 356.
As also how to prevent such snares as
are in this Practise of Witch-craft, most cunningly laid to entangle and draw vs to the liking and entertainment thereof. page 357. chap. 16.
A third general Use, is for consalati∣on, and that many ways:
And that generally,
1 To comfort the Church of God, in regard of the grievous judgment of witch craft: 360. chap. 17.
2 To comfort in particular such as are afflicted with this Judgment. page 361. chap. 18.
The conclusion of the whole.


Errata.
Pa. 25. l. 17. for bad read good
26. li. 2. for preached read practised
27. lin. 17. for hurt read help
37. li. 6. for Witches read works
57. lin. 8. for imitate read initiate
69. lin. 4. for promise read procure
100. l. 26. for match read mark
125. li. 13. mischief read mistress
164. li. 21. sometimes read societies.
160. li. 18. for serve read some
292. li. 18. for run read a Rule
302. li. 8. Primitiues read Prime Times
339. li. 13. delivered read diverted
341. lin. 14. for with read within.
344. lin. 27. for end read evil.


Page 1


THE MIST∣RYE OF WITCH∣craft discovered. THE FIRST BOOK.

CHAP. I.

Of the Occasions and Scope of this Treatise; wherein is especially proved that this doctrine of Witch-craft is very necessary to bee handled and pro∣secuted in these days.


DIVERSE have been the motives and occa∣sions which have lead me to treatise of this Subject at this time.


Some more General, concerning the diseases of the Time.
Others Special, concerning my Self.

The General are: Because the wise and glorious God by his special [2] providence in these days, requires an especial account of our Faith in this Truth: And that in these re∣spects.

First, That we should in thank∣fullness, acknowledge his great power and mercy, That hath so honoured and justified the Revelation of the glorious Gospel of his Son Iesus, by which this Mystery of Satan which in former ages hath been either smothered, or perverted, to the fur∣there erecting and maintaining of the Kingdom of darkness; is now graciously and clearly, not only discovered, but further also reformed to the true use thereof, and so wee rightly informed how to deal therein: And so by the power of God, the Magistrate enabled to take such course therein, as may best serve to the demolishing of the Kingdom of Anti-christ.
Secondly, seeing the Power of the Gospel is thus able to discover and confound the kingdom of Satan, may not this condemn our unprofitable re∣ceiuing thereof, who still mask it in our sins, and will not come out of them, whereas the very devils give testimony thereunto? If they believe [3] and tremble, if they cannot endure the glorious light of the Gospel, if they forsake their holds, and con∣found their Proselites, being forced to discover them by the power of the Word, and so to be the executioners [4] of Gods righteous judgements against them; Shall not this bee our condemn∣nation, that though light bee come into [5] the world, yet still wee love the darkness more then the light? wee less obey the Gospel then the devils do; wee An∣gels [6] in name, are less affected then these infernal spirits; wee spurn against Authority, when these are controlled by it; wee continue in our sins, when these are cut off by
the Magistrate; wee justify sin, when these discover and unfold it?
Surely seeing God is glorified in confessing of our sins, shall not the [7] devils rise up in judgment against vs? may not they teach vs to yield more obedience to the Gospel? And seeing, for our disobedience to the Truth, it hath pleased the Lord to [8] give vs up in his justice to strong delve∣sions; either, to rest in the form of reli∣gion [9] denying the power thereof, or else, to run back to Egypt again: even to loath this heavenly Manna, and so to dote upon the fetches and onions, yea the garbidge and very deepenesse of Antichrist, exalting him above all that is called God, In seeking for help unto Blessers, and good Witches, as wee call them, who being com∣monly ignorant, profane, and su∣perstitious, prove very dangerous instruments for the restoring and increase of the kingdom of Anti∣christ. As both colouring their Dia∣bolicall practise under pretence of holy prayers and natural means, and


thereby advancing that lip-labour and formal devotion, the very life of Popery. As also by their pretence of great charity in relieving so many in∣firmities, iustifying that false Fire [10] of Popish Love, and fained Miracles: But especially nuzeling the people in ignorance by their example and cor∣rupt practise, and seducing them from the light of the Gospel, and such holy means as therein are off∣red for their relief, to most indirect and desperate remedies, as to enthral their souls to hell for ever, that the poor carcass may have present case: As requiring trust and confidence to bee reposed in them, and so exclu∣ding utterly from Christ, and so from salvation. Seeing (I say) these Blessers are highly esteemed of in these days, as being dangerous Fa∣ctors for Anti-christs kingdom: Ought not every True Member of Christ to see this plague, to give war∣ning of it, that so their blood may not bee required at his hands? And hath the glorious Lord been with∣out

witnesses in these days to dis∣cover the practises of Anti-christ, his creepings in again, and that by these means of Sorceries and en∣chantments?
Surely, the Name of his Majesty bee blessed for ever, that hath raised up even a cloud of Witnesses in these declining days; as to con∣test against Anti-christ, and his hellish Monarchy, so withal to descry his deepenesse in these his devilish instruments, and therefore especially to detect and confound the same.

Consider, I pray you, with me the wisdom of our God, and let vs magnify his Name together.

Hath he not ordained the Ma∣gistrate and the Minister for the sea∣sonable overthrow of Anti-christs kingdom?

And hath he not very meruai∣lously disposed in these times, that as Anti-christ hath renewed his hopes by these and other desperate engines of his spiritual warfare, so he hath



been confronted by Gods powerful Ordinances?
As the Magistrate not only in [11] making severe Laws against the en∣crease of his kingdom, but further also by his happy Pen, cutting down his usurped Authority to the very root; and further also discovering and confounding this Mystery of Witch-craft, as being a maine prop [12] and hope for the upholding and continuance thereof.

And concerning the Ministers of [13] the Gospel, have not these in their Places, as they have the more in ge∣nerall been zealous against Anti∣christ kingdom, as they have more discerned the Mystery and Mark of the Beast, so they have been more quick-sighted to dis∣corn him in this Policy of Witch-craft, [14] and so have more earnestly laboured against the same? And shall I hold my peace in this day of good-tydings? Shall I not also bring my faggot to the burning of these Witches, and so to further the


destroying of the kingdom of Anti∣christ.
Hath not the Lord enabled me to discover the practise of Anti∣christ in that hellish Plot of the Gun∣powder-treason? Hath he not preser∣ued me graciously from many such devilish Practises of these Anti∣christian Instruments, not only in keeping me from seeking for their help, when my children were suss∣pected to bee afflicted by them, that so my soul might bee endangered thereby: But especially in preser∣uing me from many cursed snares which by these mischievous instru∣mints have been privily laid for me, to the endangering of my life, and hinderance of the Gospel?

Surely were there no general reasons to induce me hereunto, yet mine own private respect, might well herein provoke me to erect some such like Altar in memorial of Gods mercies towards me; and to enable and advise my brethren to keep themselves from Witch-craft.

Must I not confess, to the glory of my God, that as Younger Studies are subject to Pride and Curiosity, so Curiosity, through Pride, not con∣tenting it self with Common know∣ledge, is provoked hereby to taste of the forbidden fruit, even to di•e into secrets belonging only unto God, to foreknow things to come, and so to gain some high and di∣vine esteem in declaring of them?
And doth not Art give some co∣lore and show hereunto? as yeel∣ding out of general precedences of [15] the coniunctions and motions of heavenly Bodies, some probable conjectures concerning the motion & success of these inferior things? And doth not Satan most cunningly and dangerously shroud himself under this Art? as concluding particu∣lar certainties out of general probe∣bilities, and conjectures, which the curious Student coveting after, as being ashamed to stagger in his skill; while he cannot therefore find this in his Art, is therefore the-ra∣there

baited by Satan to seek this skill from him, who will not now fail to tender his help for the satis∣fying of proud curiosity, and that by such means as are not likely to bee refused.
For whereas flesh and blood would bee afraid to encounter Satan in his own likeness at the first, unless it were further deluded and hardened in the Trade; therefore behold the dangerous cunning of Satan to en∣tice these novices to his lure, and that by the appearance of contrary semblance.

To this end he appears first trance∣formed into an Angel of Light, proton∣ding his willing subjection to cer∣taine idle and worthless Characters and Names of God, whereby he deceives his novices two ways.

First, in making them beleeuethat this Art is approved of God, in that it goes under his name.

2 That it is also performed by the power of God, as whose name is the ground of the charms, and there∣fore



shall have good success.
3 And that not only in the thing attempted, but also to the party attempt∣ting the same, as having special favour with God, having the Lord (as it were) at his beck, being made of Gods secret counsel, being as God, knowing things to come.

For the further confirmation of this delusion, behold in this point another policy of Satan; that whereas man, through pride, desires Some∣raignety & Dominion, therefore now (in the second Place) Satan offers himself unto this Novice, as a Slave and Vassal, seeming to be commanded by him, whom he now labours to enthral for ever, And therein note∣bly gulling the ambitious spirit with this conceited Empery: What can thou desire more then to prevail with God, then to lead hell captive in this triumphant manner, then by these means to prevail with men?

Thus are Young Scholars puffed up with knowledge, and the Pride of knowledge exalts them above that

which is meet, that so their fall may be more fearful and irrecoverable.
And was not my Younger Studies subject to this tentation?

Surely blessed bee God in Iesus Christ that hath lent me life to ac∣knowledge his mercy in this be∣half!

Was there not a time when I ad∣mired some in the University fam•∣zed in that skill?

Did not the Lord so dispose of me, that my Chamber-fellow was ex∣ceedingly bewitched with these fair shows, and having gotten di∣uers books to that end, was earnest in the pursuit of that glory which might redound thereby?

Did not wee communicate our Studies together? was not this skill proposed and canuased in common? And did not the Lord so arm his unworthy servant, that not only the snare was graciously espied; but, by the great mercy of my God, the Lord used me as a means to divert my Chamber-fellow from these


dangerous Studies? And shall not this mercy of our God bee had in everlasting remembrance?
Surely the mercies of God are ever∣lasting, worthy to bee sought out of all that fear him: How are they renewed [16] every morning, so great is his faithful∣ness?

For did not my God exercise me usually with continual buffetings of Satan, that so I might be better ena∣bled to discover his sleights to others? Witness my diurnal Records to this end, which if God continue life and health, may serve the com∣mon Good.

Hath not the Lord since, where∣soever it hath pleased him to pitch my Tent, even there to follow me with this Tentation, to bee assaulted [17] with this pestilent-brood, and Devilish Generation? Hath not he used me as an instrument, though most un∣worthy, to comfort others accor∣ding to the comforts that have abounded unto me? Hath not my gracious God wonderfully deliue∣red



me from their cursed Trains, and made me able in some poor measure to declare his great mercies to the generations to come?
And have I not often Vowed to glorify God in this behalf? Have not my meditations and experience been faithfully stored up to this end? Was I not purposed upon a special occasion of the death of the Lady HALES procured by Witch∣craft, to commend such observations to Posterity, but that the good knight her husband, for reviving and con∣tinuing of his grief by that memo∣real ouer-ruled that opportunity: But is not the Lord merciful to offer another seasonable and worthy oc∣cession to Pay my Vows?

Surely, the Lord bee blessed that awakens this secure age daily by re∣nued tokens of his power and dis∣pleasure: And seeing wee will not obey his Word, but reject the power of it, vouchsafes yet to Preach unto vs by his wonderful works.

And seeing ordinary judgements



will not awaken vs; even from the belly of Hell he cries unto vs, and sends forth his evil Angels to vex and torment vs. Blessed bee his Name that gives vs warning of the great and spiritual plague upon our souls, by these torments upon our bodies: That lets vs see the plague of gross and palpable darkness threatened against vs by these com∣mon and fearful delusions of the Prince of darkness.
Doth not every Assise almost throughoutthe Land, resound of the arraignment and conviction of no∣torious Witches; either where gross ignorance and Popery most aboun∣death, or where the truth of God is with-held, and profaned, by un∣righteousness and hypocrisy?

Can wee forget the late Assise at Lancaster, where no less then fife∣teene were indicted, and twelve con∣damned of that horrible crime, a Country abounding on that part thereof, with gross ignorance and Popery?



Hath not Country been so haunted by these hellish Sorcery where it was confessed by other them, that no less then three were of that confedracie? And this a place famous for the and glory of the Holy Mountains
And was I not there enjoined a necessity to the discovery of thy Brood?

These are the occasions of tbis ensuing Treatise, this is the scope and end thereof.

And is it not then a word in  season for our present edification?

Surely seeing the Word and the Sword do very graciously sort toge∣there, the one to authorize and con∣firm the other: Seeing now the sword of the Magistrate is seasonably brandished against these offenders: is not the Word encouraged to justify that Authority, which usually is too fearful and charitable in rooting out such evils?

Ought not the Word to encourage the Sword to this glorious work of


detecting and confounding the king∣dome of darkness, which especially prevails by these devilish charms.
And that not only in the Ignorant multitude, and wilfully seduced Pa∣pissed; But even in the Carnal Prote∣stant, and Gross Hypocrite, though they have received the knowledge of the Truth; For do wee not gene∣rally detain the truth of God in un∣righteousness, making a show of Religion and yet denying the power thereof; making our belly our God, and the wedge of Gold our hope, turning the graces of God unto wan∣tonnes, and so giving up our mem∣bers as weapons to the service of sin; do thereby plainly discover whose servants wee are, even the bond∣slaves of Satan who rules in the children of disobedience? And doth not the Lord very wonderfully dis∣cover our shifts, and confound our painted shows, even by these evil Angels which he sends amongst vs?

Doth not our Atheism on the



one side, convince our heartless and deceitful worship, while wee Plead for Satan, and maintain his Kingdom concluding his preuailings to bee but Counter∣tings; his Contracts with Witches [18] to bee but Delusions, ascribing his power in afflicting, to Natural Di∣seases.
And yet doth not the Lord on the other side reject our confidence that so our own tongues and ways may fall upon vs?

For doe wee yet fear those Wit∣hes, whom wee conclude to bee harmless, hurting rather by our in∣fidelity, then any power of satan, or in themselves?

Do wee not close with them des∣perately, relieving them with our Alms, and so binding them by our charity, and even Tying them by the Teeth, that they may not hurt vs?

Nay, though wee make profes∣zion to seek to GOD alone in our troubles; yet when it comes


to the Pinch, doe wee not run unto the Devil? Hath not the Blesser, more Proselites and Patients then the Physician; yea then the con∣scionable Preacher?
The Lord give vs vnderstan∣ding in these things. Where is our Faith in God? Is there not a God in Israel that wee must run to Beelzebub the Prince of dark∣ness for help?

Nay where are our Wits and common sense? do wee say that Wit∣ches have no power to hurt by Sa∣tan; And yet doe wee run to those for help? Which seeing they have no calling from God, nor use any such means as are Warrantable by the Word, it must needs follow that they proceed from the Father of Lies; who then hurts most dangerously when he pretends to help: And must needs hurt desperately when he is exalted and adored above all that is called God, requiring that homage which is only due unto God.


Thus, though light bee come in∣to the world, though it bee entertai∣ned for a season, yet men love dark∣ness more then the light, because their works are evil; and so are just∣lie given up for their disobedience to this Strong Delusion, even to worship Satan; and so to become two-fold more the children of hell then they were before.
And doth not their example har∣den the Papist in their Idolatry? And yet surely the Justice of God doth still gloriously appear in these Children of wilful ignorance that still stop their eaires against the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wise∣lie. That seeing they will not bee converted by that mild voice from Heaven, they may bee confounded by this fearful voice from hell: That they may now discern their true estate to bee no better then the Devils slaves, led captive by him at his will, by these Good and Bad [19] Witches: these hurters and helpers.

As Trusting to these for help for the



body, and so renouncing the some∣reign and safe remedy of the light of the Gospel for the salvation of souls. As, fearing the other more then the living God, and his Vice∣gerent the Magistrate; and so by this slavish fear, as with a strong cord being faster bound under the power of darkness, binding here∣by iniquity as with Cart-ropes, while they add drunkenness unto thirst, confirming Ignorance and In∣fidelity by this palpable Idolatry in seeking help of Satan: And so being confounded in their vain con∣fidence of will-worship unto God: As now being justly convinced to offer sacrifice to the devil, might either by this shame bee brought to repentance, or else being made utterly inexcusable, might so bee given over to the fearful ex∣pectation of the vengeance to come.
Certainly, if these accursed peo∣ple yet seek for signs and sha∣dowes to confirm them in their



superstition or reform them to the Truth: Have they not a sign from heaven, even the sign of the Son of Man, Daily crucified unto them in the powerful Preaching of the Gospel? And yet behold their fear∣full obstinacy.
Doe they not still dote after stocks and stones? Doe they not run from the living to the dead? Doe not they renew their Idol∣trous Crosses, to increase their sto∣ny hearts? Do they not say unto the stocks thou art my Saviour, and to the stone thou hast redeemed me?

Oh Adulterous and faithless Generation, how long will they pro∣uoke the Lord? Shall not his iea∣lousy burn like fire to consume them and all their stubble with un∣quenchable torments.

And seeing they boast that they have made a Covenant with hell, and [20] are at an agreement with death, as pretending that by their Keys they have the power to open and


shut hell at their pleasure; and yet intending, and discovering plainly herein their horrible Atheism, that they have made Falsehood their Re∣fuge, and are Hid under Vanity, making the Pleasures of sin, their [21] chief God and happiness, and resting in their Visible Monarchy, as their Sovereign and supreme King∣dome [a].
Hath not the Lord mightily re∣jested their confidence by giving them another Sign even from the bowels of the earth: By let∣ting Satan loose to torment and delude them, to vex their bodies and yet also to deceive their souls?

Surely the Justice of GOD is admirable herein to bee laid to heart of all those that doe hate the Where, and desire her de∣solation, that so they may lift up their heads because their sal∣uation draws near; in that they may discern in this glass of his providence, the confusion


of Anti-christs approachings: And so may take the opportunity, to ha∣sten the same in their several places and means which yet the Lord in mercy affords unto them.
And blessed bee God that gives some measure of wisdom to re∣deem the time, and declare the wonders of the Lord to the Gene∣ration to come. Shall not this make for the confirmation of our faith, that the Lord will tread Satan utter∣lie ynder our feet?


CHAP. II.

First proves that there are Wit∣ches, and that
1 By testimony from the Word.
2 By testimony from all antiquity.
3 By sound Reason, and that drawn:
First from the Power, Justice and Wise∣dome of the Lord.
Secondly from the Pride and Policy of Satan.
Thirdly from the damnable estate and desperate condition and corruption of man.

Secondly it reproves;
1 Those that impute this to melancholy.
2 The Atheist that denies Witchcraft.
3 That would have all to be but Illusion.
4 That justify bad Witches.
5 And so answers to all objections that may bee justly made against this Do∣ctrine.
THat there are Witches; first, this appears by the testimony of the Word, which witnesses.


1 That there were such Sorcerers that preached this skill, as 1. Sam. 19. The Witch of Endor, & Simon Ma∣gus, Acts 8. and Pythonesse in the Acts 19. &c.
2 The Judgements of God are de∣nounced against such by the Pro∣phets, as Essay 44. 25. & 47. 12.

3 The Magistrates by severe Laws interdicted the practise of Witch∣craft as Saul, 1. Sam. 10. 3. & 9.

4 The sentence of death is pronoun∣ced against this by the Law of God, as Exodus 22. 18. Thou shalt not suffer a Witch to live.

Secondly, the whole stream of Antiquity also avouches the same.

As appears by that which is de∣claret hereafter concerning the enter∣tainement and practise of Sorcery: By all nations.

2 By the Laws of each nation, a∣against this Mystery.

3 By the general experience of all Ages wherein either through eg∣norance this wickedness hath ap∣peared in open face among the Gen∣tiles,



or else, for abuse of knowledge, even hypocrites have been given up to this Judgment of Witch∣craft, because they detain the truth of God in unrighteousness, and sa∣crifice to their Art, yea to Satan himself, even wherein they pretend to serve God, as appears afterword in the use hereof.
This also is manifest by sound Rea∣son and Induction.

And that from the Power, Wisdom and Justice of God.

Gods Power is manifest; as his yield∣ing up the mightiest to the power of Satan, as Gods executioner, so in brideling Satan to hurt & cut where it pleases him, Iob 1 & 2. 2. Corin. 4. Matth. 8.

His Wisdom admirable in this: That giving the wicked their desire for the satisfying of the flesh. [23]

1 They are willingly given up to submit their souls to the power of Satan, and so to be the executioners of their own damnation.

2 And whereas Satan, if he should appear in his own likeness, would not so easily be entertained, could not do so conveniently the will of God, in deceiving the wicked: yet being now disposed by the Lord of glory in this wise and glorious manner, that by the ministry of men & wo∣men subject to our infirmities: and therefore more likely by reason of natures bonds, to prevail with their like, Satan shall tender his service un∣to vs; doth he not convey his boy∣son into our souls more easily? doth he not prevail more effectually to our ensnaring and destruction?
The Justice of God shines also most gloriously in this mystery of Witchcraft.

As first, In making it a Punishment to such as will not obey the truth, that they might be deluded and ensnared thereby.

And so in sealing up, in this strange & terrible affliction by Witchcraft, & the desperate covenant that is there∣in; even eternal vengeance, and those intolerable pains of the damned,



that the Atheist may be utterly con∣founded, and the desperate sinner, may be utterly without excuse: As preaching to the rebellious world, by these prophets of Satan the cer∣taint of their damnation, who re∣fuse to embrace the glad tidings of their salvation from the Messengers of the Lord.
And is not the Justice of God ad∣mirable herein, that the wicked are now the choosers and executioners of their own damnation, in being willingly ignorant of the truth: In their best wisdom heaping up tea∣chers according to their own lusts, purposely submitting themselves to these prophets of the devil, that so they may be turned to their ineuita∣ble condemnation?

Secondly, It is manifest from the Pride and Cunning of Satan.

Who although he naturally hate God, yet in the Pride of his heart he seeks to imitate him in all his act∣once, that so he may more desperately execute his malice both against God


in disgracing his providence, and a∣against man in furthering his destru∣ction. And therefore, as God Satan his covenant with man: so will Satan have a special covenant also with his servants.
As the Lord hath his Ministers to exeeute his wrath upon the disobe∣dient: namely, the Magistrate, so Sa∣than will have his bad Witches to execute against the sons of men. Yea,

As the Lord hath his Prophets and faithful ministers to relieve and com∣fort his distressed people: so Satan will have his good Witches, to mini∣ster help to such as seek unto him, &c.

And as the wise and merciful God, because wee are not able to hear him, if he should himself speak unto vs, doth therefore convey his will into earthen vessels 2. Corinthians 4. 7. causing men, like our selves, sub∣jest to the same infirmities with vs, to deliver his council, and prepare vs to the obedience thereof: even so



deals Satan the god of this world, with the children of disobedience. That whereas by reason of Natures guilt and infirmity, they could not endure his terrible and personal presence: therefore he tenders his will unto them, by certain de∣lightfull and Families charms, yea by Witches his vassales insinuates himself into vs, colouring his pre∣sense and sleights by some show of outward holiness, as by abusing of holy Names, Prayers, Relics, &c. that so he may the better win from vs an approbation of his help; and so the more dangerously ensnare vs in his cruel paws.
Thirdly also this is manifest from the consideration of our own cursed nature. And that not only because wee are Sedans slaves naturally, and so are led captive at his will, e∣uen to further our own condemna∣tion, and the condemnation of o∣theirs:

But especially in regard of those Remainders of original goodness:



As some natural light, some conscience of good and evil, &c. where wee being usually puffed up, and by laboring to increase these gifts: see∣ing wee know not the right men hereunto, namely, to seek them of the Lord: Is it any marvel, if we fell to chaffer with Satan for the obtain∣ing thereof? especially seeing he will not fail to offer his help, and that upon very fair and seemingly equal terms?
Now if wee consider on the other side, that corruption wherewith we are infected even from the mothers womb. Two things there are here∣in that further this compact with Satan.

The one is, The earnest and vnsati∣able desire to accomplish our lusts: which seeing we cannot compass by lawful means, will we stick at any thing, though it be the hazard of the soul, to attain our desires? Math. 16. 25. Especially, seeing as wee desire to commit sin with greediness, so either for credit, wee would not be



seen therein; and indeed it is Satins polity to blind the eyes of our minds, that so walking in darkness, we may not know whither we go, but even like fools be led to the Stocks, and oxen to the shambles: And hath not this Practise of Witch-craft many cun∣ning sleights, and colours to hide and cloak sin, to elude and pervert our iudgemēts, that we may not dis∣corn whereabout we are? Cōsider to this end that which follows: & God give vs understanding in all things.
Add we hereunto, That as sin en∣creaseth and ripens to vengeance, so natural light by degrees is clean per∣uerted [24] and extinguished. And the bands of common honesty being wholly cast off and violated, the bri∣dl is given to all desperate and pre∣sumptuous sins: and that the wicked may more securely revel therein: re∣legion is made a scorn of, and God is [25] forgotten, and the knowledge of his ways utterly rejected: whereby the Lord in justice is provoked to execute his fierce wrath, and to power out the


most bitter vial thereof upon the souls of the wicked, yielding them up wholly to the power of Satan: whereby they are left to these despe∣rate extremities, as to make real co∣uenants with him: to yield him up their souls, and all at his devotion; to consecrate themselves to his ser∣vice and homage, and so to become spectacles herein of the certainty of damnation, for the confusion of the Atheist, that thinks there is no hell, and the warning of the Christian, to avoid the danger thereof.
3 And seeing it is the Justice of Almighty God to punish extraordina∣rye and monstrous sins, with strange and unwonted plagues. Therefore see∣ing the wicked cānot content them∣selves with common and natural [26] sins, but must further devise sins a∣against nature, as being justly giuē up [27] hereto by the divine Justice, puny∣shing their carnal Wisdom: in their strange and monstrous Idolatry and Will-worship by those monstrous and unnatural Impieties: Is it not yet
further just with the Lord, to leave them to be tormented by Satan, the god of this world, whom they have consecrated themselves unto, and that with strange and fearful con∣uulsions, and horrible tortures, like∣lie to rend the body from the soul, but that the mighty hand of GOD ouer-ruleth Satan, and sustains Nature, to the further advancing of his divine Justice and admirable po∣were. And yet all this in show by the ministry of a poor, weak, and mise∣rabble woman, to the increase of their [28] rage, and confusion of carnal wise∣dome, to the nourishment of Infide∣litie, and so to the sealing up in these bodily torments of eternal vengeāce.
1 And therefore; as this reproves [29] such as seem to elude all with a con∣ceit of melancholy, as if these devilish practises and combinations betwixt the Witch and Satan, were but fan∣cies and vain dreams of a melan∣choly brain: seeing the symptoms of melancholy doe no whit agree with the persons of these Witches.



2 As these, being •at, merry, deligh∣ting in cōpany, & all which are con∣trary where melancholy reigns: so this is also a Plain condemnation of the Atheist of these Times, who doth therefore willingly entertain this error; That there are no Witches: that so he may therehence conclude to his soul, That there is no Hell, no Devils, &c.
3 This reproves those, that•, because many things are done by the delusi∣on of Satan, (as hath bin manifested heretofore) do therefore conclude, that al is but Illusion, and so would il∣lude the maine ground of Witch∣craft, namely, that real covenant that is between Satan and the Witch, for the effecting of such things as on both sides are covenanted.

4 But especially, they are here justly to be taxed, that howsoever they will acknowledge the Bad Witch to work with, and by Sa∣tan, because she hurts: yet at no hand will yield, that the Blesser and wise Witch (as they doe term her)


hath any thing to do with the devil, by virtue of such compact: but ra∣there conceive that it is some extraor∣denariate gift of God, given to such spe∣ciall persons, whereby they have po∣were to dissolve the Witches of the devil; seeing it is manifest, that such extraordinary gifts now ceasing, and this being proper only to the Word, in the mouth of a skilful and ap∣proved good workman to that end, If any such thing fall out: it no∣cessarily proceeds from Satins po∣were, permitted justly by the Lord, to prevail thus with his dearest ser∣uants, to deceive and ensnare vnsta∣ble souls, that forsaking the God of their salvation, run to Satan for help for the body, to the destru∣ction of the soul.
And therefore, howsoever Satan could without the ministry of Witches, do happily as great hurt to the body, and therefore it may seem, that to use them were needless: yet seeing it is the soul that he principally hunts after; & so, by hurting the body, en∣tends



also the further ensnaring thereof. Hence is it, that he employ∣eth these instruments, to accomplish his will by, not only ensnaring their souls, by satisfying their desires to hurt, and help whom they list: But hereby also endangering the souls of others.
Both those that are hurt, in prouo∣king them hereby, both to seek for revenge abroad, against the Witch: whines they should begin at how to be avenged of their own sins: as also to seek for remedy of their hurt by devilish means: and so they usual∣lie buy this help with the hazard of their souls.

And so also enthralling their souls yet more fearfully unto Satan: In that receiving help from such means as are tendered out of his school: hereby it comes to posse that Satan is adored, and advanced above all that is called God. The holy and lawful means of help are rejected, and despised.

Ignorance and Atheism is nor∣shed

in the world, Infidelity and all excess of sin, maintained and in∣creased, and so iniquity ripened unto the day of vengeance. And yet.
If here the cunning of Satan be to keep these Witches poor, and [30] therefore it may seem, that they should have but a little list to foal∣low this miserable trade: Observe we wisely the admirable Justice and Wisdom of Almighty God here∣in, both in ouer-ruling Satan, that he shall not minister to the Witch according to her desire: that so she may be confounded in her d•sperate bargain, that hath parted with her soul, for enjoying of that whereof she is disappointed: As also

Hereby the desires of the Witch being disappointed, are more enfla∣med, and so eternal damnation here∣by sealed up unto her.

And withal, she more objected to the lust of Satan, renewing her covenant, and multiplying her sa∣crifices, that she may compass her



desires: That so being still kept short, and confounded in her expo∣ctation: she may break out into more desperate attempts to the ripe∣ning of sin, and hastening of ven∣geance.
Which shall with greater confu∣zion light upon her, in that being once arrested and convicted by Authority: she shall find her master whom she hath served, not only to be the means of her discovery, and haling to Judgment, (as hereafter shall be manifest;) but now he hath disco∣red her, to forsake her utterly (in re∣guard [31] of helping out of this brake;) that so she may be yet further con∣founded, in her desperate choice, that hath forsaken a faithful GOD, to serve such a master, as will forsake her in her need: and that to such a fearful end, as hereby to sink her in horrible despair, and so to ex∣clude her al hope of mercy and com∣passion from the Lord; and thereby to expose her vnauoydably to his merciless tyranny.





And to this end serves further, that the bad working power being so limited, as being hurt, she cannot  again, howsoever it may seem to imply a  in this Trade; or at least challenge the power and perfection of it; yet indeed this re∣strained of the bad Witches power, tends much to adance the Mystery of this iniquity; as hereafter is made manifest, and so to make good the wisdom of this Art: Especially seeing this both for the present proves a great confusion to the Witches power, as also gives occasion of her dis∣couerie from the Blesser, who in this case is sought to for help; and so detecting the bad Witch makes way for her riddance that her My∣ster Satan may have more work.
And howsoever when the Witch is punished, the party afflicted hath no case, yet this doth not argue that his affliction came not by that means. But herein appears, first; the absolute power of God, who ties not the outward blessing simply

to the use of holy means: Though the Magistrate have done his duty in punishing the Witch, yet the party afflicted must still abide Gods leisure, The Lord is not simply subject to man: Or else though the outward means may bee used for the punishment of the offender, yet seeing the affliction must bee san∣ctified before it shall bee removed from the Saints. And this prose∣ding hitherto may happily bee a means for the good of the Witch, as being staid from further hurting, and so happily as she belongs to the Lord, by this temporal pu∣nishment may bee brought to true repentance: But it cannot simply and necessarily avail the party af∣flicted; therefore it is the great wise∣dome and bounty of the Lord, not to cease the affliction upon the punishment of the Witch, but ra∣there to linger it upon his Saints, un∣till by more effectual means of pray∣er, and unfeigned repentance, they shall make an holy use of the pre∣sent


chastisement, And so in it due season it shall bee removed from them.
And may not the wise and gre∣cious GOD heerby meet with our Confidence in the means; not removing the correction, though wee have done the will of God for the further Trial of our faith, and advancement of his absolute power, in preserving vs in this ex∣tremity?

And so thereby not only con∣founding Satan, and his instru∣mints which thirst for blood: but preparing vs hereby to a more glory∣os deliverance. And what if he please our merciful God to take vs to himself by this strange afflict∣on doth not his exceeding mercy shine herein? Not only in sanctify∣ing this great affliction to his Saints, though he do not utterly remove it; but further also in delivering them by this affliction from this miserable world; or at least leading them by the continuance of the rod, to


sound repentance, that so they, may howsoever be bettered by it.
And therefore seeing the Lord can raise light of darkness, and these [34] outward things are common to all: though the dear Servants of God should bee chasti•ed with thy• scourge, may not this stand with the wise providence of the Almighty may it not come within the com∣posse of this Art, to have even Gods children afflicted by Witch-c•aft? Shall not even all things turn to their good?

And what though the Word seem to condemn such as by poison take away the life of man; yet s•eing these poisons are delivered from Sa∣tan unto the Witch, by virtue of the Covenant between them; and [35] though some hurt bee done by boy∣sons, yet much more is done by sor∣cerie, and employment of Satan personally to that end, seeing the Word doth as well condemn these Witches: Is it not manifest that such there are to be condemned?


And though happily they may speak many things falsely, as confess∣sing that to bee done by them which is done by Satan immediately, telling of many things that are untrue, yet doth this the rather argue that they are led by Satan, that he doth ma∣ny things by their appointment.
For seeing Satan is a Liar from the beginning, therefore doth he both teach them to lie.

1 That those which yet will de∣pend on them, may bee more inex∣cusable.
2 That he may also by this [38] means make a Trade of lying.
And he doth also give them oc∣zion to lie unwittingly, in confessing that to be done by them which Sa∣tan did of himself, that so he may hasten them to their deserved con∣damnation, causing their own tongues justly to fall upon them, both in pu∣nishing their will though they did no hurt in this particular, and me∣ting with former hidden wickedness by this supposed & arrogated crime.


But here it is replied; that these poor women use Salves and give prayers to the accomplishment of their cures, and therefore neither is it likely that Satan would con∣join with such holy means, and indeed it is needless, if these will doe it, to admit of Satins assi∣stance thereto.
To which wee answer, that nei∣there are such medicines as are ap∣plied usually fit for all such cures, because commonly they give but one Salve for all diseases: Or if they were, why may not Satan use these to cloak and colour his pre∣sense?

As for prayers, neither are they available in regard of the person, being usually profane, popish, or ignorant; neither indeed allowable to such ends; but where other lawful remedies may not bee had. And may not Satan hide hereby his assistance more dangerously? May he not deceive unstable souls more desperately?


Thus it is apparent that there are Witches, both by testimonies from the Word, and by sound reasons con∣uincing the same: And so
Such objections are answered as seem to oppugn this sacred truth.

Now let vs consider further what Witch-craft is.


CHAP. III.

1 What Witch-craft is, 2 Of the causes, 3 And effects thereof.


VVItch-craft is a wicked Art serving for the working of wonders by the assistance of the devil, so far forth as God in Justice shall permit.

An Art (I say it is) because it hath it Rules and Observations whereon it is grounded: especially the Covenant with Satan, and the circumstances

The Author of these Rules is Satan the Prince of darkness reigning in the children of disobedience, & therefore by his knowledge of divine duties


and malice against God and his i will∣drone, framing these Rules, to draw them from the service of God, to the service of the Devil.
And conveying these Rules unto the Witches his chief Scholars, that they might more easily and familiar∣lie teach the wicked, then if Satan himself should personally appear unto them.

And therefore it follows that it is a wicked Art, as proceeding from so fearful a Teacher, and ten∣ding to so wicked ends. As

1 To work wonders, whereby it is proved to bee a Wicked Art, as pro∣ceeding from that root of Bitter∣ness even a Desire to bee like unto [40] God; to the compassing whereof, what more colourable then to work wonders? Thus did Satan prevail with our first Parents, and thus he works upon their graceless post∣rite, as being encouraged daily here∣in by our natural corruption: And, that especially discovering it self.

1 By self love, and high conceit


of our own deserving; which being not answered; but rather crossed herein, that he that hath most is no∣for cōtēted, he that hath less envies him that hath more: hereupon Sa∣tan lays the foundation of this Art in the heart of man, as hereby be∣ing [41] persuaded that he shall work wonders, both to relieve his poverty, and advance his credit, as exceeding all in this, though he come short in other things, and hereby com∣passing the height of his desire: Thus did many Popes advance themselves, as Syluester 2. Benedict 8. and Hilde∣brand.
This self conceit stays not here; but as outwardly it affects to bee as a God among men by honour and promotions, so doth it also inward∣lie affect and desire some such means, whereby it may reign in the consci∣ences of men.

And to this end, knowing men to affect novelties, doth it therefore in Curiosity, search after knowledge and hidden Mysteries, which being not



supplied by nature and ordinary means, are therefore not unwillingly sought by this forbidden skill: And that the rather because hereby being enabled to confirm such new-found knowledge with strange & wonder∣full events, by this means doth more strongly bind the conscience, & de∣taine in obedience: Although all is done by no other means; but
2 The assistance of the devil: where∣by it is further distinguished from all other Arts, which produce their effects by virtue of their own ground, not any outward help: As also espe∣cially, severing hereby the wonders that are wrought by this Art, & those True Miracles, that are wrought by Divine Power.

These are such as are wrought by the power of God simply, either above  or contrary to nature, as Exod. 14. 21. & Exod. 6. 7. 8. those miracles done before Pharaoh by Moses, and Iosh. 10. 13. The causing of the Sun to stand in the firmament, The preserve∣tion of the Three Children in the



fiery furnace; Dan. 3. 20. Daniel in the Lyons Den, Dan 6. 23. & Math. 14. Ioh. 9. these have God truly to bee their Author, As being the only Creator of Nature: 1 And therefore to God alone belongs to restrain or extend the power there∣of: 2 Especially seeing this is a kind of creation, whereby that is to bee made which was not before: Ps. 136. 4. And therefore, if the Pro∣phets and Apostles have done any such wonders: It hath been, 1 Not by [44] their own power, or in their own name, but by the Name and power of God: 3 Having an especial and extra∣ordinary calling thereunto: Act. 3. 12.
Nay though the Son of God in his [45] Man-hood did many miracles, yet this was not by the Manhood wholly, though thereby the work being wrought, was dispensed & acted in such & such a visible manner; yet the work it self being cōtrary to nature, was effected only by the power of the God-head: as in the raising up of the dead, the man-hood uttered the voice, but the



God-head fetched the soul from heaven and put it in again unto the body, yea gives life and power to hear the voice uttered to rise, come forth: Ioh. 11. Math. 10.
And therefore seeing Christ as man only, could not work these mi∣racles, It follows that whatsoever are wrought by men are deceitful and counterfeit, And being won∣ders and strange effects are therefore effected by the subtlety of Satan, as being able to doe strange things above the ordinary course of nature, though not simply contrary there∣to, which ordinarily the wit of man cannot possibly produce: And that

1 Because he being a spirit, is of extraordinary knowledge and capaci∣tie to search into the secrets of na∣ture, and there to frame strange and wonderful things: And that the ra∣there because

2 He is ancient and full of expire∣ence, and so hath increased his know∣ledge and profited his practise,

which man by reason of his igno∣rance and forgetfulness, want of opportunity cannot possibly com∣posse: And this
3 The rather because Satan to his knowledge and experience hath great power sufficient even to con∣found all inferior creatures if the Lord did not restrain: And withal

4 Is exceeding nimble and ready in exequution, being able to convey himself and other creatures in a trice even from far distaut ply∣ces.

1 And so by virtue of skill be∣ing able to apply Creature to creature and the efficient causes to the matter.

2 And that speedily above the ordinary course of nature how can he but effect admirable things:

3 Especially if we consider that the Lord permitting, it is possible for Satan to convey himself into the substance of the creature, without any penetration of dimensions, and be∣ing in the creature although it bee never so solide, he can work there∣in,

not only according to the Prin∣ciple of the nature thereof, but as far as the strength and ability of those principles will possibly reach and extend themselves.
By this it is manifest, that Satan can work wonders, and these accor∣ding to his several Qualities, are of two sorts.

1 Illusions, or Real actions, Satan [46] deceives, 1 The senses, 2 The mind.

The Senses are deceived, when wee think that wee see, hear, feel, and what indeed wee feel not: How Satan doth this, see hereafter in the Sect: of Juggling: Galatians 3. 1. 1. Sam. 25.

The Mind is deceived, when a man thinks that of himself which is not true; as when men think they are Kings, or Christ, Alias, &c.

Now Real Works are such, as [47] are indeed what they seem to bee: which though to men that know not natures secrets, may seem strange and admirable; yet are they no true

Miracles, but Lying Wonders, in re∣guard of the end, for which they are wrought, as to maintain error, though not in respect of the work it self, Such were those, Iob 1. So can Satan appear in the shape of a man, not deluding the sense, but by assuming a true body, and therein utter a true voice.
And yet he cannot Change one creature into another: As a Witch into an Hare and Cat; This is a mere delusion of the sense, though the like was done by the mighty power of God, Genesis 19. 26. Lots wife.

As for that of Nebuchadnezzar, Dan. 4. It was no change of his substance, but only of his con∣dition and qualities of his mind, Verse 31. The Lord inflicting mad∣ness, &c. upon him, to punish his Pride: And

Thus may Satan work wonders but yet with this limitation:

So far forth as God in Justice suffe∣reth: Implying thereby:


1 That God suffers this Trade to try his children, and to Punish the wicked, 2. Thess. 2. 10. 11.
2 That Satan can go no further herein then the Lord permits: though his malice be infinite, yet his power is limited, Exodus 7. 8. 1. Reg. 22. 23.

And this the Lord doth 1 to con∣found Satan in the top of his Pride, and restraint of his malice; 2 to pre∣serve his children from his power and cruelty, 3 to humble the wicked that are his Prentices in this Art, as if by their power, and not a divine hand, Sa∣than were bridled, and to confound them also in their cruel expectations and designs against the Church of God.

Thus far concerning the Nature, and general Description of this Art.





CHAP. IIII.

Now let vs consider further of Sedans Policy in Training his Scholars to this Art, as also in Training them up, and confirming therein.


AS every Art hath it entrance and introduction, to allure and enco∣rage thereto, yea to imitate and hap∣pily to begin more rudely, and so by degrees to attain to perfect skill therein: So is it in this Art of Witch∣craft.

The occasions that are ministered to Satan, to allure vs hereunto, pro∣ceede from our selves: namely those desperate passions of 1 wrath, 2 discon∣tent, 3 revenge, 4 covetousness, &c. which being joined with a 1 con∣tempt of Gods ordinance, 2 gross and open profaneness, and 3 to desperate impenitency; do therefore give Satan occasion to conceive, that God hath forsaken vs: and so now is his time to challenge his own, or at least to

set upon vs, to make vs his own.
To this purpose first doth he suite himself according to our reigning sins, nourishing vs in eg∣norance, and so preventing means of repentance; and yet, hindering for a while by all means the attaining of unlawful desires, that so he may sink the wicked in despair, as be∣ing utterly out of hope, to com∣posse their intents, and to satisfy their lusts: provoking them to fur∣there despiting of GOD, and con∣damning his providence, in not yielding unto their unreasonable, and insatiable desires: And so by this manner of means provoking the wrath of God the Lord further against them, they grow to solitari∣ness, and hereupon give fit opor∣tunity to Satan to enter them to this mystery.

Of the manner of Sedans compassing and training his Novices to his Lure, and of his notable deceipts, and im∣postures therein.




THis is according both to the Times wherein he works, as also the several condition and qual∣tie of the persons upon whom he works.
You have heard how Satan dea∣leth, to prepare the wicked to this Art: Now let vs consider the man∣ner how he sets upon them, to enter them heereinto: Which is accor∣ding,

1 To the Times, which if they be of Ignorance, then he appears more grossly in some Carnal and ugly shape, to bring into subjection by fear: and so also, for the same end, he appears in the same manner v∣sually by night.

But if it bee in the day, or in the abundance of knowledge, then either only by some voice, or by some curious appearance, or by some friend∣lie resemblance, he doth make his way, to entertain parley with the discontented and desperate par∣ties.



1 Not being dainty to question with them, What is that doth discon∣tent? and,
2 Promising them, a sudden, and certain way of remedy.

3 Provided, that they follow his advice, and do such things as he will require of them.

4 And contenting himself with some general answer for them tending to this effect, that they seem con∣tented, desiring nothing more then to know what particular means it may be, that so they may be masters of their desires; and so

To this end concluding of a second meeting, for this time he takes his leave.

It is not long but he keeps touch with them, remembering them of their grievances, reviving their hopes for help, kindling their de∣sires to seek it from him: and so gro∣wing to some particular terms, what they must doe in requital again; Namely,

1 To addict themselves unto his ser∣vice:



and when he hath gotten this promise of them.
2 Then he discovers unto them what he is: making it apparent by some more terrible form, and thereby the rather to awe them with the pre∣sense of his power:

And so to keep them by terror from starting back, and yet to give them hope by this resemblance of his power, that he is able to do for them, what they may desire, able to confound their enemies, and defend their friends.

And so happily for that time also he doth proceed no further with them.

It is not long but he meets with them again, and then proceeds to bind them to his allegiance, by entering into a solemn league, and co∣uenant with them.

But before we do come to speak hereof, let vs make some use of Sa∣tans former Policies.

Surely, howsoever it be common to all.



1 To sin of Infirmity, yet let vs take heed of presumptuous sins.
2 Though wee sin, yet let vs not reject the means which may bring vs to repentance.

3 Let vs learn in all things to clear God, and condemn our selves, that so Satan may not prevail a∣against us.

4 Take wee heed likewise of Ignorance, and wilful resting thereon, lest hereby Satan prevail against vs.

5 And learn wee to Moderate our desires, and to get the victory o∣for them, lest hereby Satan take advantage to draw vs to unlawful courses.

6 Observe wee the admirable in∣stice of Almighty God, that Pre∣sumptuous sins shall reap no better comfort then despair, and so by des∣pair betray themselves to Solitari∣ness.

And therefore, to prevent despair, let vs daily renew our repentance. 

1 Renouncing our selves, by see∣king



to the mercy of our God.
2 And take we heed of discontent and murmuring against the Lord, lest the Lord leave vs to Sedans power.

3 And though we must daily di∣struck our selves, yet let vs not nag∣lect the Testimonies to take the surer hold on GOD; lest Satan by de∣grees steal upon vs, observing his Cunning,

4 That first he works upon the soul secretly and afar off: and so comes nearer to open contracts: And therefore labour we to resist in the beginning, using society grati∣ously and following our callings.


CHAP. V.

Satins Policies in confirming his No∣uices in this their Trade.


THis is discovered, either in the Covenants that posse between Satan and the Witch to this pur∣pose: or else,

Such other Stratagems and devices



That are used to this end (of which in their Places) to make them sty to their covenant, and so to perform the bargain.
Concerning the covenant, certain it is, that though (as you have heard) Satan dallies for a time, to draw vs on: yet at length he will not fail to make sure of his Prentice, by binding him in some solemn Bond to faith∣full service, and performance of what hath formerly been promised.

Now in the Covenant wee are to consider.

First, the Nature and Quality of the Covenant.

Secondly, the several ceremonies, interchangeably concurring to the solemnising thereof.


SECTIO I.
COncerning the Covenant; cer∣taine it is, That there passes such a Covenant betwixt the Witch and Satan, as appears:




1 By the Testimony of the Word, as, Psa. 58. v. 5. where the original yeel∣death, thus, which hears not the voice of the Charmer, or Mutterer, joining so∣cieties together: wherein, the holie-Ghost both sets down the effect of a Charm: namely, that it is able to stay the Adder from stinging those that shall touch him;
As also the Ground of the Charm, wherein it hath it power: Namely, Societies, or Confederacies, cun∣ningly made, not between man and man, but as the word imports, between the Enchanter and the Di∣uell. So Deuteronomie 18. ve. 11. The Lord charges the people when they come into the Land of Canaan, that they should beware lest any joined society, that is, entered league with wicked spy∣rites.

2 The practise of Satan proves no less, who is ready to offer con∣ditions of agreement, as appears, not only in the proffer to our Saui∣our Christ, but in those daily offers he makes unto men, to give them



this, to do that for them.
3 The event and success of Witchcraft makes it plain; which being sometimes wonderful, always about the power of the silly Witch. It must needs follow, that this effect pro∣ceedes from some such compact with Satan; who is hereby bound unto the Witch to do such things, which she of her self were never able to doe.

The End of this Covenant is, To make sure of his Prey, which by ver∣tu hereof he seizes on: The Lord leaving rebellious man hereby to his power, as by this Covenant with Satan, wilfully forsaking God, and submitting unto Satan as his Some∣reign Lord.

But here it is replied in the de∣fence of Witch-craft, that both the [52] Devil doth many things, and yet not at the Witches command: and also that the Witch wishes, and performs much evil, either by some cunning poisons, by outward violence, &c. or at least, though they may be done by



Satan, yet she is not so much as privy thereto: nay many times she seems to be against the same, and therefore it may seem there is no such Covenant.
To which we answer, that though [53] Satan doth some things beyond au∣thoritie, yet he doth other things at the command of the Sorceress: and those which she commands not, though Satan doth them; these shall be put to the Witches score: yea, though hap∣pily she should seem to be vnwil∣ling: because either the Devil an∣swears herein, in some measure, the general malice of her heart, which is to do more hurt then she can: or ap∣prehends some secret inkling, though there be no express command: or else, exceeds his Commission, to the confusion of the Sorceress when she now shall discern, how her servant is her master, doing what he list, though he would seem to be at her beck. To this end consider we fur∣there.




SECTIO II.

Of the kinds of Covenants which are made between Satan and the Witch.


THese are of two sorts: The first expressed and manifest, because it is performed by solemn words; Satan appearing in some visible form, and the Witch answering really by some form of speech, tending to this end, To admit of the Devil as her sovereign lord, to renounce God, Baptism, Christ and all, to yield him all service both of body and soul, while she lives and so to leave him body and soul to dispose of at his pleasure after death.

1 The occasion of this real Cove∣nant, is either the vnsatiablenesse of mans desires, which to enjoy he cu∣reth not what he parts with, and so expressing those desires by some in∣temperate and violent passion, gives occasion hereby to Satan to tender this service.




2 Or else some extremity of affli∣ction so oppresses him, that being not able to undergo the burden, he cares not upon what terms he pro∣mise his ease, and so is contented, for present release, to adventure a future casualty. Or,
3 Some matter of discontent, pro∣uokes to revenge, and rather then his spleen may not be satisfied, he will satisfy the Devils request. And so by these and such like prevailing corruptions, is at length brought to this fearful issue, as to engage his soul to the bondage of Satan.

Another sort of Covenant there is, secret, and mental, as wee say, per∣formed by consequence, and necessary induction.

And this usually serves the turn, [54] because Satan hereby deceives most dangerously: as deluding the Witch that she is free, because she hath made no verbal composition, whines indeed by those means, she is bound more fearfully.

Or else, this proves in some ca∣ses


a preparative to the other; especi∣ally when the parties use such means ignorantly, which are no better then Sedans indirect and abominable pranks to procure ease against in∣firmities. As, to scratch the Witch, to hang Amulets about their neck, &c. which though some doe ignorantly, as thinking some inherent power to be in those means to cure diseases: yet doth this by degrees draw them from the use of law full means, cause them to rest in those that are vnlaw∣full: and so nourishing them in infi∣delight, provoke them in time to for∣sake God; and so they are justly left to the power of Satan, by him to be ripened to the day of vengeance.
If wee would know the Tokens of [55] this secret Covenant.

They are, First prayer for unlawful things: which howsoever it may seem to be made to GOD, yet in truth it is offered up to Satan: so that if now by such means wee be∣come masters of our desires, this is a pledge of this secret Covenant.





Secondly, using unlawful means: such as are offered by Satan for help in extremity, as to go to Blessers, to scratch, to use spells, &c. wherein if wee be convinced with the truth, that these have no proper virtue to doe such things, and yet shall use them; This is an other dangerous bond of this secret Covenant.
So that though all that use these things are not brought to this Trade of Witch-craft, to hurt the bodies of others: yet are they hereby bewitched in their souls, and so prove spiritual deceivers, to enthral the souls of o∣theirs to perpetual perdition.

A third mark of this secret Co∣uenant, is an ordinary taking of Gods name in vain; especially in blessing of Cattle, which although the ignorant and vnbelieuing world hath taken up of custom, yet the [56] first tutors hereunto have been the Witches, thereby to colour their sorceries, and draw more Proselites to their devotion.

And therefore it were to bee wi∣shed,


that we were more exceeding careful in the sober and reverent use of the name of God; especially, when wee think or speak of these outward things, lest Custom breed profanenesse, and profanenesse con∣tempt, and despite of GOD and godliness. And so, although at the first Satan enter not into vs, yet by degrees at the length he may so far prevail, as first to draw vs to make charms of these holy names; and so secondly upon the effect answer∣ring our Infidelity, wee be further drawn to unlawful desires, and to be contented to submit to Satan for the obtaining thereof, and so at the length become practitioners in this, Art.
Uses of these Divers Covenants.

By this it is apparent, that not∣withstanding the caveats of Atheists and profane persons against the Do∣ctrine of Witch-craft: That certain∣lie there are Witches, as appears by this Covenant between them and Satan.




And seeing infatiable desires are an especial cause of the making this League with Satan: Therefore we are taught secondly,
1 To set bounds to our vnlaw∣full desires; 2 to be content with our estates; 3 to prepare our souls to afflictions; 4 to enlarge our de∣sires for heavenly things; 5 to sup∣press our unruly affections of every anger, and especially 6 to cast our care upon God in Iesus Christ, and 7 to have our persons accepted of God in him: that so we may not be ensnared with Sedans baits.

And seeing the wicked are not a∣shamed to make open profession of their homage and allegiance unto the Devil: and therefore much less ought wee to be abashed to profess our Faith in God, to give a reason of our hope and confidence in him: If Satan will have real promises and verbal contracts, not contenting himself only with the heart and in∣ward man: Then surely ought not we to content our selves with good



or bare purposes, but wee must la∣bore to confess with the mouth to salvation, as wee believe with the heart to righteousness, as Rome. 10. 10. If Satan will have deeds as well as words, then let vs also not be hey∣rears only, but also doers of the will of God, lest wee deceive our selves.
Lastly, seeing Satan is grown so cunning, as to content himself with privy signs and circumstances, not exacting of all sorts public and express bargains: shall not this teach vs, not to content our selves with bodily service, and outward devotion: But especially, to labour for truth in the inward man? Shall not this win vs to watch seriously over our thoughts and secret purpo∣ses? Shall it not send vs unto Christ, for the daily purifying of our hearts by faith in his precious blood? shall Shall it not still round vs in the ear, to take heed of hypocrisy? lest this be of al other the most sure bargain with the Devil, seeing of all other, the hypocrite is first to go to hell, as



making a mock of heaven. They shall have their portion with hypo∣critic: of all other the hypocrite shall drink deepest of the cup of vengeance.
Hitherto of the nature and kinds of the Covenant: Now let vs consider further of the conditi∣once thereof.


SECTIO III.

Of the conditions of the Covenant be∣tweene Satan and the Witch.


THese are interchangeable, as,

1 What Satan will doe for the Witch.
2 What the Witch must doe for Sa∣than.
The ground of this Covenant, is in i∣mitation of the Divine Wisdom, who by this means reveals him∣self unto man, and binds man unto him: and so in high scorn and de∣spite of the Lord our God, by the same means doth Satan endeavour


to withdraw man from God, to en∣thrall man more desperately to his service.
And yet herein to deceive wretched man; as by this outward ceremony of the Covenant being in imitation of that divine breeding in the minds of his Proselites, an opinion of Sa∣thans deity, and so thereby auou∣ching this subjection unto him.

The Policies of Satan in this C•…∣nant is manifold.

1 As first, to make them believe there is a kind of equity in the busi∣ness, and so the rather to stick to it, the rather, when his performance is present, their turns served, that which they are to perform, to come, uncertain, they may repent, or, Hell is but a Bugge-beare: yet,

2 To bind them more surely to his service hereby, seeing in honesty they are to keep touch with him, seeing he keeps with them; binding them herein by that bond of civil hone∣sty


which Nature so much stands [57] upon, and rests in, thereby, though confounding, yet also flattering the same.
But hath not Satan (I pray you) in this Covenant with the Wltch, a further reach, to deceive others also?

Yea surely, and that many ways.

As first, hereby he would bear the world in hand, that he is now so at the Witches command, as that, neither may he bee thought to have any power else, but what is li∣meted to her lusts, whereas indeed he doth many things of himself, and yet father them upon the Witch, to flatter her in her sovereignty, and hasten her to vengeance: yea, exceeds often the Commission, which he receives from her. And though she would have many times the mischief undone and released, be∣cause she is tormented by such charms, as Satan teaches, to dissolve the Witch-craft, as to burn some part of the thing bewitched, &c. and no doubt is in like manner hand∣ted



with some heart-pang, and help of conscience, yet can she  give the least ease to the party afflicted.
Especially Satan observing the nature of man to be prone to Idolatry, his purpose herein is to with∣draw the mind from God, and settle in upon the Witch: As if Satan were not Gods instrument to afflict men, but only the Witches servant to doe what she please, and so the Witch and Satan in the Witch must bee adored and exalted above the Lord. She must be feared, rated, yea, sometimes she must be inno∣cently condemned, she must bee sought unto, closed with, pacified with gifts &c.


SECTIO IIII.
THat which Satan binds himself to doe for the Witch, is, To ap∣pear unto her in what form she pleases

1 To confirm her conceited po∣were.
2 To prevent that fear which might arise from more horrible ap∣parition, and so to nourish in secure∣tie.

Herein he deceives diversely:

1 As first, that he is no where pre∣sent but in these forms.

2 That he is always present in these forms, whereas indeed he deludes oftentimes the senses hereby.

3 That accordingly to the mule∣titude of forms, so are their many Devils, that the Witch may the ra∣there glory in the multitude of these servants.

4 That the Creatures of Almighty God, which in themselves are good [58] and serviceable for use, may be fea∣red, and hated, yea adored, and re∣spected as presages of good or evil, as, when a Hare crosses the way, &c. And so our right in the creature que∣stioned: But especially, Sedans cunning in appearing in these forms even of familiar Creatures, which


if they can hurt, It is but only the body:
1 Is, both to hide that special Tie∣rannie and cruelty of his which he extends against the soul:

2 And to nourish this conceit by these appearances, that his power is limited by that creature, and so not to bee feared, so to bee lightly re∣guarded and despised of vs: as busy∣ing themselves about such trifles, as to keep drink from working, and whereas indeed under colour of these they prey upon the soul, stir∣ring up to revenge, coueteousnesse, vncleanesse, &c.

Yea overthrowing of King∣domes, rooting out the Gospel: which that they may effect more se∣curely when they are not espied and prevented, therefore they labour to occupy men's minds in these base and slight matters, that so they might not suspect, or prevent them in the other.

And doth not Satan notably de∣lude the Ignorant People, That by this covenant with the Witch, to bee at



her command, he makes the simon∣ple people believe, that he never comes but at the Witches sending: And so both provokes by all means to curry favour with the Witch, by en∣tertainment, gifts; what not? where∣by they become subject, through this infidelity, to Satins power; As also prepares way hereby to seek to the Witch for help; and so is fur∣there ensnared to the danger of the soul.
Nay doth he not by submitting himself to base means: as by bur∣ning a spittered hot, &c. whereby he seems to bee removed, herein also further deceive the simple peo∣ple: As with-drawing them from the holy means whereby they may bee relieved, and causing them to rest in these accursed and deceitful helps: which either do no good at all, or if they doe any, it is to doe a greater hurt.




SECTIO. V.

A second thing whereby Satan binds himself to the Witch, is to doe whatsoever the Witch shall com∣mand.


THat is, to lie still when she lifts to spare.

To run and hurt when she is moved, where and how it pleases her lust.

And the more cunningly to con∣uey and execute this mischief, to shroud himself under any shape; yea to convey the Witch under any shape, or form, to the satisfying of her lusts, and yet to deceive her more grossly therein.


SECTIO. VI.

Shall wee now consider a little how Satan deceives by this subjection?


FIrst, in that he pretends to bee at their command: he thereby se∣cures them as if their state were safe,



they need fear no hurt from him, seeing he is at their beck.
Nay he thereby Puffs them up with a conceit of some extraordinary favour with God that gives them such power over Satan: Nay he further bewit∣cheth them that now they are as Gods; being able to command Sa∣tan, whom none can ouer-rule but the Lord:

And so provokes to horrible blas∣phemie, and Idolatry, to advance themselves in Gods steed; to save life and to destroy it at pleasure: And thereupon infers a further secure∣tie of their estates; That they which can thus dispose of others estates, they are wise enough to secure their own: Or at least, what need they more then to enjoy this some∣raignetie, to exercise this liberty, [59] thus to satisfy their utmost desires?

Hitherto ferues another slight of Satan herein: That being now at their command, he hath no power but from them: When they call he must run, otherwise he quitche

not: And hence arises this delusion, That seeing they know what's best for themselves, therefore they will bee sure to keep him safe from her∣ting them.
And here Satan hath another trick yet further to beguile them; namely, to confine himself as an Ape to his clog, to some Box or Prison, where he lies, as bound not to stir but when the Witch calls, she, as his Jailer, must give him liberty, whereas he still goes about like a roaring Lyon, stirring up in the heart desires of revenge, covetousness, &c. while he seems to lie still from bodily harms, and nourishing Pride and Infidelity by this his fained bondage, and so hardening in secu∣rity, while he cease from outward hurts.


SECTIO. VII.
AND doth he not also by this his feigned subjection to the Witch de∣ceiue the Vnbeleuing world?

Yea certainly, and that many ways: As First, he withdraws them from the acknowledgement of Gods Providence; who only hath power to send these evil Angels to torment the wicked, and afflict his children, and so to rob God of his glory herein, and to refer it to the Witch, as if Satan were only at her dispose.
And for their further confusion herein, he provokes them in re∣avenge of their wrongs, not to look into their sins, which cause the same, or to look up to God who only can heal, because he gives the wound: But to cry out upon the Witch, to harry her to the Justice, to scratch, and practise against her, and so, many times, to shed innocent blood in accusing wrongfully: Or at the best, though the Law may bee satisfied, yet God is not glorify∣ed, nor themselves truly relieved, Seeing by using unlawful means for help, though the body may find ease, yet the soul thereby is more dangerously ensnared.
And hath not Satan another dan∣gerous fetch in this subjection? That whereas many diseases come of na∣turall causes, which are well known to Satan, though the simple people are utterly ignorant thereof: Yet seeing the Witch in malice intends the hurt of her neighbour, and to this end sets Satan on work: here∣upon it is concluded that all disea∣ses proceeds from Sorcery; and so hereby all sober and wise means are neglected to preserve health, the bridle is given to all riot and ex∣cesse: and if any thing fall out, the Witch is blamed, and not our [60] distempers.


SECTIO. VIII.
THus we have heard one part of the covenant, What Satan must do for the Witch:

Now let vs consider on the other side, What the Witch must doe for him again.


The maine matter is, that she must give her self unto him body and soul. But this is coloured, first, by the Time, he will not have it presently; because yet she hath not made up the measure of her sin: And there∣in he deceives her, that she may re∣pent of her bargain, God may change her mind, &c. and so drowns in security.
And to this end he hath another colour, that is, the condition, if he perform faithful service: And there∣fore [61] he will of purpose fail her some∣times, that so she may hope her self free: yea he doth usually leave her, when Authority arrests, to bring her to confusion, that so now she may shame the devil, as wee say, and so perform some hypocritical ripen∣tance.

And yet for all this observe, I pray you, his Deepenesse. in making her sure.

Namely to prevent after ripen∣tance, or at least to deceive thereby.




CHAP. VI.

Of the Ceremonies of the Covenant.


HE hath further diverse ceremonies accompanying this covenant which tend very fearfully to the confirmation thereof.

And these are:

First, As the Lord hath a special Seal to bind his servants unto his obedience; namely, the seal of Baptism, Rome. 4. So when Satan hath once obtained this absolute promise of his Prentices, to yield themselves wholly to his devotion, then his manner is, to set his seal up∣on them, thereby to appropriate them unto him.

And this is commonly some sure mark upon some secret place of their bodies, which shall remain sore and vnhealed until his next meeting with them, and then for afterwards prove ever insensible, howsoever it be pinched by any.



To assure them thereby, that as therein he could hurt or heal them, so all their ill and well-doing must depend wholly upon him: And that the Intolerable grief they feel in that place, may both serve to seal up unto them their eternal damnation; And so to awaken and give them no rest till the next meeting again, that so they may hasten the vengeance that now they have tasted of.
This shall appear the better if wee consider the next meeting, and such circumstances of place and actions, that are performed therein.


SECTIO. I.

Of the Place where the Witch is sum∣moaned for further confirmation and binding of her to Satan.


When Satan the Prince of dark∣ness that rules in the children of disobedience, hath once entangled this Novice within his snares, and set his Privy Mark upon her, thereby to bind her unto him more surely, That she may bee yet further given


up by the fierce wrath of the Al∣mighty to his power: he hath yet many other Policies to effect the same.
As first,

She must bee convented solemnly into the house of God, there to make [62] open testimony of her subjection unto him, by renouncing all former covenants with the Lord.

And here

Usually, these things are perfor∣med in their order.

First, Satan blasphemously occupy∣ing, the Place whence the holy Oracles [63] are delivered, doth thence:

First, require of his Proselite an ac∣knowledgement of her covenant, causing [64] her usually in her own person to re∣peat the form thereof: As IN. do here acknowledge, that upon such condi∣tion I have given my self unto Satan to bee disposed of him at his pleasure: And

Secondly, when this acknowledge∣meant is made, in testimonial of this [65] subjection, Satan offers his back-parts to bee kissed of his vassal.


Thirdly, this being done, he then delivers unto his Proselite, and so to the rest (for many are conuened at this meeting) the Rules of his Art, in∣structing them in the manner of her∣ting and helping, & acquainting them with such medicines and poisons as are usual hereunto.
Fourthly, Taking also account of the proceedings of his other Scholars, and so approving or condemning accor∣dingly.

Fifthly, for their further confer∣motion, he yet enioynes them another ceremony: Namely, to compass about the Fount divers times, there solemn∣lie to Renounce the Trinity, especially their salvation by Iesus Christ, and in token thereof to disclaims their Bop∣tisme.

Sixthly, and in further token of [69] their subjection unto Satan in yeel∣ding up themselves wholly unto his devotion, behold yet another ceremony here usually is performed: namely, to let themselves blood in some appa∣rant place of the body, yielding the



same to be sucked by Satan, as a sa∣crifice unto him, and testifying there∣by the full subjection of their lives and souls to his devotion.
Lastly, to gratify them somewhat for this their dutiful service, it plea∣seth [70] their new Master oftentimes to offer himself familiarly unto them, to dally and lye with them, in token of their more near conjunction, and as it were marriage unto him.

These are usually the ceremonies whereby Satan binds his Proselites to keep covenant with him.

And his Policies herein are mani∣fold: both in regard of the Witches themselves, as also in regard of others that shall take notice thereof.

Concerning the Witches.

His Policy in conuening them in∣to the Church is:

1 Partly, to procure in them a [71] conceit of the lawfulness of the busi∣ness (as being done in so holy a place) thereby to make them secure in continuing therein.


2 As also to encourage thē the ra∣there to hold out by reason of the com∣panie where-with they meet, ready to hearten by presence and example.
3 And doth not Satan by this convening them into the house of God, and there presenting himself unto them, procure in their minds a conceit of his Deity and sovereign Pow∣er, that so they may yet better con∣ceiue of their dealing with him, and more willingly perform all cove∣nants, seeing as God he requires no∣thing but his due, as God he will per∣form with them to the full, and there∣fore they must not flinch from him.

4 And surely if wee shall look up unto the ouer-ruling hand of God herein, in giving Satan his enemy leave to Profane the place of his worcester∣ship, and thus to appear there unto his Proselites for their further con∣damnation: May not the Lord have these ends herein in respect of these Witches?

1 That here they may receive the punishment of •heir gross hypocrisy, and



profaneness for their former abuse of Gods holy ordinances, and bodily service, lip-labour, &c. where they committed the sin.
2 That here they may be hastened to the participating of this punishment, by being provoked to fearful blas∣phemy, and renouncing of that God whom formerly they served, and so might bee more justly subjected to the power of Satan.


SECTIO II.

And may wee not here learn many profitable things?


Doth not our gracious God ten∣der some light unto vs out of this [72] darkness? Yea surely.

1 Our Profaneness is reproved, that abuse and defile the house of God with our bodily service, & vain thoughts and speeches, rather like a company of devils, then the Saints of God.

2 Our superstition is condemned, in [73] ascribing holiness and perfection to the place of Gods Worship, as if the place did sanctify our service, or shield vs from danger: as if we were free from



Satan when once wee have got the Church over our backs: As if no prayers were available but what were offered up here. Doth not Satan hereby take away the benefit of private prayer which indeed is the life and touch-stone of the public? Doth he not provoke vs hereby to rob God of his glory, in ascri∣binge that unto the place, which is pro∣per only to his Majesty? Doth he not utterly frustrate & prevent all spiritual worship of the heart, as if the perfor∣ming of a little lip-labour in the house of God would serve the turn; wee need not stand vpō any inward touch or feeling, it shall suffice that we have offered up the sacrifice of our lips be∣fore the Lord. Surely when I cōsider [74] the practise of the time, namely, when we come to the house of God which is appointed for public prayer to be performed jointly by the whole Con∣gregation, we then fall to troubling our private devotions, yea when the public Exercises are in hand, so that for the presēt we neither can join with thē, nay rather indeed do disturb & give


offence to the Congregation, in not consenting with them, me thinks even Satins Proselites may here con∣damn vs, who cary themselves more regularly in the house of God to serve the devil, then wee here to the service of God. These wretches, I warrant you, are kept from sleeping, they spare not their blood to please the [75] devil, they are contented to submit themselves to any base office here∣unto: Nothing can keep vs waking, not though Iesus Christ bee crucified among vs daily, though we are parta∣cares of his blood, yet wee will not kiss the Son of Righteousness; we cannot so much as shed a tear in testimony of our renouncing of sin and Satan; whereas these wretches spare not their dearest blood to show their ho∣mage unto Satan.
4 And are we not hereby taught, now to fear our selves most, when we [76] are before the Lord, in his Sanctuary, because Satan will now be one with vs, both to hinder vs in the service of God that we shall not profit, or else to


puff vs with Pride, as if wee had de∣served much hereby: and then to ac∣cuse vs of presumption, that so he may drive vs to despair.
Surely, seeing wee cannot be free from Sedans snares, neither the house of God will protect vs, nor our own houses can shield vs, but Satan will be closing to rob God of his glory, [77] and vs of the comfort of any public duty; shall not this send vs to the searching of the heart? shall it not teach vs to worship God in spirit: that so Sa∣than may not bee acquainted with what we are about, and so may not interrupt vs, or if he guess at our purposes, may be yet confounded, in that our hearts are best known to the Lord?

It is our comfort unspeakable be∣fore our God, that hereby wee de∣sire to worship him in truth, because, as our hearts witness with the truth of our endeavours, so doe they also witness for God against vs, the imper∣fection of them: that the Lord may be justified when he judges, Psal. 51. 4. 5.



That Satan may be prevented, and confounded, by this judging of our selves, that hereby wee may be daily provoked to perfection: by labou∣ring to be found in Christ, not having our own righteousness, and so may grow up in him to perfect holy∣ness, Philip. 3. 13.
Shall not this teach vs to try our public worship by this touch-stone of [78] the heart, and not the place? Shall it not wean vs from the love of this world: seeing no place so holy, no means so sacred, but by Sedans policy they may be abused? Shall it not provoke vs to hunger after our dissolution, that so [79] we may freely and continually glo∣rife our GOD in his blessed king∣dome?

Doth not this condemn that pompous and carnal decking of the house [80] of God, rather to please the eye, then affect the heart, rather as a Palace for the god of this world to revel in, and prey upon newfangled and silly souls, then a place of spiritual worcester∣ship, for the great GOD of Heaven



and Earth?
Certainly, when I observe some occupying the place of Gods worcester∣ship: and thence delivering unto Gods people Chafe in stead of Wheat, [81] nay sometimes poison in lieu of whole∣some food, making merchandise of the word of God &c. may I not con∣clude, that these are the devils factors, bartering their own, and their peo∣ples souls unto him, for alitlle, vain credit, and for a few shekels of sell∣for, and morsels of bread? herein far worse then the devil himself, that whereas he means plain dea∣ling, to draw them to damnation: [82] these notwithstanding pretend to show them a nearer way to Heaven, pro∣mising liberty, when themselves are slaves to corruption, and so nouzling in se∣curitie, and excluding repentance, do thereby cary their people in a dream unto hell, 2. Pet. 2. 19. 20.

And when I consider on the other side, that faithful teachers, who la∣bore by enforcing the Law, to bring [83] the people to a sight of their sins, and



so to a denial of themselves, that they may hunger after Christ Iesus: be∣ing [84] laden with the burden of their sins: That such, I say, are not with∣standing traduced, as Preachers of domnation, no better then Satins har∣bengers, to drive silly souls through de∣spear into the very snare and pit of de∣struction.
Me thinks I observe here, a far more dangerous practise of Satan, then this, with these Novices, to renownce their Baptism, even to cause the peo∣ple of God utterly to reject the true means of their salvation, namely Christ Iesus.

In that he will not suffer them to see, what need they have of him, by humbling them with the Law, that so they might bee forced out of them∣selves, [85] to rely wholly on his sacrifice for the pardon of their sins. Is there not more hope of the salvation even of these Witches, that are thus kept sensible of their woeful estate, either by the smart of their privy match, or by such continual tampering with


them, sometimes by ugly apparitions, to terrify them, eftsoones to keep them watchful by continual employ∣mints. Is there not, I say, more hope even of the recovery of such, then of many thousands in the world, who [86] are lulled asleep in security, and fat∣ted up, without all sense of danger, even to utter destruction?
Oh that we were wise to under∣stand these things, to Try the spirits, and choose the good and perfect way. Is not the Prophet a snare upon Mispath? and profound to deceive? Is it not just with God, that because wee have not received the truth, therefore to give vs up to strong delusi∣once to believe lies, 2. Thess. 2. 11. 12.

Well, this we may learn, by this impudency of Satan, in abusing the place of Gods worship: and drawing his Proselites hither for their further confirmation in their subjection un∣to him. [87]

And are we not yet further taught hereby, to make a profession to our God of our subjection to him, and that pub∣likely,



when wee shall be called here∣unto furtherby the magistrate, to give an account of our hope, or by the Mi∣nister to approve ourprofiting by the word; or by our Christian brother, to confirm him therein? nay, ought we not, to stop the mouths of the wic∣ked, by acknowledging our some∣reign Lord the great God of heaven and earth: seeing the wicked are not ashamed to honour their master the devil: glorying in this, that they are the damned crew? &c. shall not even [88] these silly deceived souls, rise up in judgment against such monsters, that are drawn to that through fear, or ignorance, or hope of present release, seeing these wittingly and maliciously, as it were defy God: & with an high hand, blaspheme, and tread under foot, the blood of the covenant, acknow∣lodging willingly, and with great applause, their subjection to Satan? Nay, shall not our Politic and State∣christians, [89] bee condemned by these poor and base creatures, who upon necessity, and through fair promi∣ses


only are brought to this subie∣ction?
Surely, when I observe, the wise∣dome of the flesh in many great & migh tie of the world, that either come to the house of God, only to receive ho∣nor, & to maintain credit, and outward esteem; or else, to hedge in some pro∣fit and suck some advantage hereby; or else rather, to honour the word by their presence (for this is usually the best end) then to be humbled and re∣formed thereby, rather, I say, to con∣troule the ordinances of the mighty God, then to be brought in subject∣on under the power thereof: may I not conclude, that herein they ra∣there publish their homage unto Satan, then testify any obedience unto the [90] Lord? Are not these the very strata∣gems of Satan, to ensnare unstable souls, by causing them thus to abase the word, thus to pervert the holy ends thereof, are not the wicked here∣by justly given up to the illusions of Sa∣tan, for the profaning of Gods ordi∣nonce? do they not by these abuses,

testify their obeisance unto the Devil, while they pretēd the honour of god, doe they not in seeking their own honour, abase that which belongs to the Lord, approve themselves to be imps of that king of Fear, who in all things seeks to rob God of his glory.
And what else may wee deem of [91] that high mystery of carnal wisdom chalenging Pre-eminence over the word of God, in determining Laws: besides, or contrary to it, confining & suiting it to it crooked Rules; binding and loosing it, for the satisfying of it lusts. Is not this a plain badge of of that man of sin, that son of pard∣tion? Is not this an apparent evidence of it subjection to Satan? And if wee shall scan the mystery of that sub∣limited policy: that nowadays, he [92] is not a wise man, who is not a ser∣uant unto men, submitting himself to be new moulded & fashioned accor∣ding to the lust of his Patron. This blas∣phemously chalēging him as his pro∣per creature; & the creature reioicing


as in his sovereign creator, conform∣ing heart and hand simply to his de∣uotions: May we not see Satan here aduāced as god of this world in the i will∣drone of disobedience? May wee not conclude, that such absolute subjection as is given unto man, is wholly taken from God, and given to the Devil?
And what may wee deem of the common Idolatry of all sorts? One [93] makes the wedge of gold his hope: An other makes his mistress the sovereign of his heart: this, makes his belly his god, the other sacrifices to his net, &c. Are not all these (in effect) sacrificers unto the Devil? Is not subjection and homage performed unto him, e∣uen in them all?

What shall we think of the gene∣rall and ordinary service of God in these days; the most fear him with their Lips, but their hearts are far from him: the best usually serve him but by halfes, they cannot be Saints, God must bear with thē in some sin; they must live, & therefore they must strain a li∣tle: they are but flesh and blood, & they



do what they can, God must be mercy∣full to them in this &c. Do they not in all these, show themselves servants to him, whom yet they obey, even the prince of darkness, the great deceiver of their souls?
Is not Satan the lord of their harts, while they serve God but with their [94] lips? & doth he not hereby hold their hearts faster bound unto him, in that he gives way to their bodily service; nay, will he not have their tongues al∣so at his devotion, at a pinch, to c•rs the same God whom they seem to [95] bless, or to slander their brethren, and condemn thē of hypocrisy, because they labour to serve God in spirit & truth?

And is not Sedans cunning the more dangerous, in that he is content to hold the wicked but by one string? [96] Is not their state more dāgerous, that while they seem to have escaped the pollutions of the world, & to make a fair show in the flesh; as if they were good [97] Christians, glorious sepulchres, yet ey∣there inwardly they are full of rotten bones, or else one dead fly will be suffi∣cient [98]



to corrupt all the ointment of the [99] Apothecary, easily may Satan reco∣for his full possession again: even by reason of that one traitor, which they shall nourish in their bosoms: Shall he not reenter with seven worse spirits, [100] and so the later end of that man shall be worse then the beginning: The dog shall return to his vomit: and the swine unto the mire, of which he was cleansed, and so become twice dead, and plucked up by the roots: even two-fold more the child of [101] perdition, then ever he was before?
O that wee were wise to discern our selves whose we are! and whom we serve! how long shall we halt be∣tweene two opinions? If God be Lord, [102] deserving all service at our hands, in∣abling vs by his spirit, to offer up our bodies and souls, as a reasonable service [103] unto him: (& what more reasonable then to give him his own, that hath bought it so dearly.) If his yoke be ea∣sie [104] to those that will take it up, and his commandments not grievous, to those that will endeavour the per∣formance thereof.



If he bee contented to accept according to that which wee have, not re∣quiring [105] what he give vs not. If he vouch∣safe the Will instead of the Deed: If he that gives Will, will give the Deed also, that wee may serve him [106] in Truth, though wee cannot bee perfect: That the sense of our imper∣fection, [107] may still send vs unto the Fountain Christ Iesus, that so from him wee may still draw forth waters to eternal life, being daily found in him, not having our own right∣ousnesse, that so through him wee may daily make our requests Manifest at the throne of Grace: That we may bee careful in nothing, nor fearful of [108] any thing: Casting our care upon God, [109] because he cares for vs, and com∣meting our selves in well-doing into [110] the hands of our faithful Creator, still forgetting that which is behind, that [111] wee may hasten to that which is be∣fore, for the price of our high calling in Iesus. Who may not try himself hereby whether he be in the faith or not? Who will not daily strive and


endeavour to make himself thus ma∣nifest [112] unto God and to his own conscience? If he that is in Christ must bee a new creature; so new that [113] all old things must bee abolished, because he that abids in the flesh cannot please God, Rome. 8. And if wee nourish but one known sin [114] wee are guilty of all: If wee must have respect unto all Gods comman∣dements, [115] desirous in all things to please our blessed God, Not caring for the flesh, to satisfy the lusts thereof: Will it any thing avail vs to plead Flesh and Blood? If there be but one thing wanting, will all the rest any whit avail vs? If Christ Iesus bee not thus vs in, That the body is dead to [116] sin, but the Spirit is life for right∣ousnesse sake; Are we any better for all our formal righteousness then very [117] Reprobates, the very slaves of Satan to whom yet wee do obey, to whom we there perform most acceptable service, when wee doe think it suf∣ficient toserue God according to the flesh, either by halfes, for a seasōn, &c.


Let this serve for our Trial here∣in, [118] and let vs give our hearts to obe∣serve here further matter:
Doe wee think that Satan in tampering thus with Witches, enten∣death only, either their own bane, or else, by them to hurt only the by∣dies of others?

No surely, as his principal end is, by all means to dishonour God, and discover his malice, and rage against the Almighty, so doth he express his hatred against God, in destroying the Creature, and in the Creature that which most resembles God. And therefore he not only aims at the Divine soul, but by all means labo∣reth the general confusion of mankind: that so (if it were possible) he might rob God of his glory, in saving a∣ny; you see how he spared not our very Saviour himself, the head of his [119] Church, and will he not attempt (if it may be) the destruction of all the members? And doth he not prosecute this his design, in the other Cere∣monies, whereby he obliges these



miserable wretches yet faster unto [120] him? For, what else doth that other practise of his aim at, in taking ac∣count of his vassals, and informing them in the mysteries of his damnable trade: rewarding them accordingly as their pains hath been, and enabling them hereby to commit further mis∣chief?
As hereby he blasphemously imi∣tates the Offices of that great Judge and [121] mighty Saviour: instructing them as a Prophet in their several duties, censuring them as a Supreme Judge and sovereign, according to their ex∣ploits.

As their high priest enjoying the sacrifice of their blood, as a pledge and bond of their allegiance, and satisfy∣ction for their failings: So doth he hereby also more desperately ensnare their souls: As, [122]

1 Arresting them hereby wholly to stand to his verdict, & so to make a mock of the day of Christs coming.

2 Deceiving them under pretence of these natural medicines, as if it were



by virtue of them, not by any C•…∣nant with him, that such effects follo∣wed.
3 And binding them hereby surely to him, by his familiar & careful dea∣ling with them, in furnishing them with all means, to become masters of their desires.

4 Puffing them up with conceit of extraordinary skill in Natures secrets, & so with a vain imaginatiō to be as gods, through such rare knowledge and great power: thereby lulling them in security: that so they may hasten their damnation. Thus are th•se Witches en∣snared thereby. But may not this his po∣lice extend it self also unto others?

Yea surely; Behold (saith reverend Latimer) The devil is a more careful [123] and painful Dioclesian in his charge then many of our idle and Idol Pastors are in theirs. Satan is never idle, he is always going about to destroy the souls of men: These sleepy dogs lie still in their kennels, fatting them∣selves [124] with the fleece, & leaving the flock to be devoured of the wolf.



2 Satan is always resident upon his charge to keep the same in his claws: These leave the Flock, and attend the Courts of Princes, or their Hounds and Hawlkes, or worse: as for the Flock it may sink or swim; Better far to bee such ones Dogs or Horses then to have their souls committed unto them.
3 Satan he will take account how his Scholars do profit, he will see that the non proficient shall bee snea∣ped, and the painful encouraged: These by their evil example corrupt the Flock, discourage those that are forward and zealous, encouraging those that live at ease in Zion, and will eat any fly, as peaceable men, quiet neighbours, wise and discrete subjects, &c.

4 Satan will not cease to inform his Proselites further in the Mysteries of their Trade, that so they may bee more skilful and profitable in his service; These complain, that the people have too much knowledge; they labour rather to keep them in igno∣rance,



and to darken the light by their profane handling thereof, that so they may pluck out the spiritual eyes of their people, and so to lead them [125] about with them, like blind Simpson, to sport with their follies, and gain [126] by their infirmities.
Thus shall Satins vigilance con∣damn the sleepiness, and carelessenesse of carnal Pastors.

But this is not all that may bee ga∣thered out of this Ceremony.

1 May not this bee a stumbling block to the Separation, to renounce [127] our Assemblies, when Witches, yea the devil and all, can Lord it therein?

2 May not this be an occasion to despise the holy Ordinances of God, the Word, Baptism, &c. seeing they are thus profaned by these cursed mis∣creants, [128] and so in seeking to run from God, or rather from the devil abusing these things, even to run to him, with the Anabaptist and Fa∣milist, for Revelations and Enthuse∣asmes.



If now wee shall take a further view of that other ceremony in cau∣sing his Proselite to compass the Font, and there to Renounce her Baptism: as herein he entends to harden her heart the more, by this blasphemous disclaiming of the Seal of her fall∣uation, and so to bind her more firm unto him; so hath he also divers [129] Fetches herein to deceive others.
As First, to cause Ignorant and un∣stable souls, to rest in the necessity of the outward Seal.

As 1 To fear damnation if they [130] want it, which gave occasion to that blasphemous and sacrilegious intru∣zion of Midwives to the performance cie of that ceremony in a case of no∣cessitie.

2 To presume of certainty of sal∣uation upon the having of the Seal; as if outward Baptism made a Christi∣an, and nothing else, and so to open a gap to all profanenesse.

3 And so by building salvation upon the outward Elements and means; thereby to imply an vncer∣tainety,


and failing thereof upon the [131] want of outward means: As if up∣on extremity, wee should bee enfor∣ced to deny our profession, therefore we should bee deprived of our saluati∣on, if by persecution wee should bee driven from the outward means, as the Word, Sacraments: therefore al∣so our hope of safety were gone. And hence
4 Erecting an Anti-christian visi∣bilitie, as if no Church; where no pub∣like liberty of the Means: That one∣lie the True Church where the Form of Religion is kept a foot, howso∣ever the power thereof bee therein denied.

Thus doth Satan deceive by this Ce∣remonie of Renouncing Baptism.

And doth he not also notoriously beguile unstable souls by that other ceremony, In causing his Proselite to confirm her subjection by venting of her blood and offering it up unto him [132] as a Sacrament of her loyalty, and en∣tire devotion unto him?

Yea surely, he may pretend here∣by



Thankfulness in the Witch that [133] thinks nothing too dear for him.
He may intend hereby the propha∣ning of the blood of Christ, as if her own blood should seal up her faithfulness and pledge her zeal to increase his Kingdom.

He may hereby make her more des∣pirate and greedy to shed the blood of others in revenge of her own.

He may hereby prepare her by this continual •ssue of blood, causing pain and waste of the body, to ha∣sten her own destruction by accu∣sing of her self, &c.

But his intent is also to condemn the [134] world: That will not afford a good word for Christ, not endure a fillip for him, much less insist unto blood in so good a cause. As also to scorn and condemn the Manhood of the world that consists only in this, to shed their blood in revenge of their own quarrels, or for the defence of their friends, A Witch will do as much to please the devil: A Witch will not spare her blood in her Mr. quarrel.

And so to deceive the world: As first Heretics, that if they justify it with [135] their blood the cause is good; so say the Papists, so boasted the Ancient Heretics.
Secondly, seeing these Witches are adored as Gods, in the hearts of god∣less people, therefore if they spare not their own blood, may they not be pro∣digall of the blood of others? This is one ground of all that cruel murdering of infants, of friends, of enemies; yea ba∣thing themselves in the blood of Prin∣ces; [136] They (for the most part) are pro∣digall of their own blood, yea they offer it up willingly unto Satan, to pre∣uaile by this means in their wicked purposes, and must they not gratify him with continual shedding of blood? must they not satisfy their own blood by pouring out the blood of the greatest, that so thereby they may make way for General conuulsions, and massacres of all sorts.

Thirdly, nay who will not seek to imitate these ghostly Fathers; nay indeed who can choose but follow them; ei∣there



they will cousin and disappoint their [137] followers, and so through discontent and despair will drive them to Butcher themselves; or else by par∣taking with them in their devilish plots, they will draw them within the compass of Authority, that so their blood may recompense their offences.
If now for every drop of blood which the Witch shall shed, she may gain so many souls to the devil, or take away life from so many others, Is not her blood dearly bought?

Look to this you that seek to these Proctors for the devil, you that betray the glory of your God in see∣king help of Satan: behold the Lord will give you up, and remem∣ber that which follows.

You shall have the honour to kiss [138] the devils back-parts, and so hath the Witch: The baser and vnseemelier the homage is, the more it binds, Reason being turned upside down can∣not judge otherwise thereof: The more unseemly the more it binds, as


agreeable to flesh, that delights in filthiness, it is just with God to give up to such slavish baseness, be∣cause his service being most pure and holy, is rejected. Look upon Poperie the nurse of Witch-craft, most glorious in her greatest liberty to the [139] flesh, in the grossest filthiness thereof commending horrible uncleanness not to bee named, as if delighted in kissing Satins backe-parts: Thus doth Satan recompense his best scholars.
That we may prevent this, learn we to Regard the knowledge of God, to increase therein, to make conscience of practise as wee know, so shall we not bee given up to such monstrous wickedness, Rome. 1. 28. 29. 30.

As for that Private familiarity which Satan hath with the Witch, in [140] conversing with, and carnal know∣ledge of her body, whether this be per∣formed really, or by some collusion, it matters not: I dare not simply deny but that Satan may have this dealing with her, as being able to assume a dead body that is not yet corrupted,



and so by his spiritual quality so far to enliue the same, as that, though not by any seed therein, because it ap∣pears that it purges out together with other humours, immediately upon the dissolution, yet by some other seed, stolen from a living body (to which I rather agree, because it is confessed that such seed is usually very cold) he may pearce the body of the Witch.
And further also so affect the [141] same, as through the divine justice to procure some monstrons birth, either through mixture with the seed of the woman, or else (which I rather in∣clean unto) he may by his skill, through Wind or other pestilent hue∣morse, so affect the body of the Witch as that it shall swell, and en∣crease, as in a True Generation, yea at the time of the birth, shall bee sub∣jest to pain and such travel as is vsu∣all to women in such case, and then in the time of the breaking open of the womb may foist in some Infant stolen else where, or delude the eyes of



the beholders with some Imp of 〈◊〉 own, in the shape of a child; or with some dead child taken up and enliued to the purpose: Which things are •…∣sie for him to doe, thereby as to give testimony of secret acquaintance, so to deceive the Witch with her new Darling, which likely shall bee but a baby of a day old, so to increase with∣all her sorrow, and yet ease of the trouble, which is happily the desire of such monsters, that so they may be free to the satisfying of his, and their own insatiable lusts.
This (I say) howsoever it may bee granted, yet I cannot see but all this may bee done, as well as others of as great consequence, even by delusion and imagination; And yet both to one end, even to deceive the Witch, and Others.

Touching the Witch, she is hereby deceived many ways: As

1 She is fed with shadows in steed of substance, with cold and [142] dead delights, in steed of real con∣tentment of the flesh.





2 She is put to a great deal of pain and torment in the bearing and birth: and in the issue, either some Monster or Abortive is brought forth to increase her sorrow, and procure Horror and Despair.
3 This disappointment of her lust, enrageth and increases the fire, and so provokes to further mischief for the satisfying thereof.

4 So is she faster bound unto Satan for the satisfying of her lusts; and for the gratifying of her Master, still put upon new mischiefs, that so at length she may make up her mea∣sure.

Thus is the Witch deceived by this familiarity with Satan: And •…th not this also prove a snare unto others? Yea surely.

This conversing of Satan with the [143] Witch, hath been the ground of all these Conceits of Fairies, &c. whereby the Papists kept the ignorant in awe.

And is not the Lord robbed hereby of the glory of his justice, who punishes Adultery sometimes with


strange and monstrous births, That be∣cause [144] by this familiarity with Satan some such monsters are eft-soonen brought forth, therefore all such effects are restrained to this cause: either some Witches brat is foisted in, &c. or else caused by Witch-craft, &c. Thus is the Lord robbed of the power of his justice, when his emma∣diate hand is ascribed unto Satan.

CHAP. VII.

Of Divers other means whereby Sa∣tan confirms his Proselites in their covenant with him.


BEsides these former Ceremonies and familiarity, mentioned be∣fore, Satan hath other means also, as occasion serves, and their deposit∣once suitable, to keep his Novices from revolting and starting from him. For there is no question, but notwithstanding all this former making sure, yet some occasion

will be offered to startle these Witches, [145] and so to procure some remorse for the bargain.
1 Either some outward affliction, or their own present case, being likely miserable, suffering much want, &c. may breed discontent, and so Re∣pentance of the bargain.

2 Or else, the Lord may awaken the conscience by the power of the word, and so confound this despe∣rate match; or Satan himself may of purpose fail his pretended mischief, leaving her for a season, or not do∣ing according to her command, thereby to prepare her by this qualm to eternal vengeance.

Wherein, lest she should now grow altogether melancholy, and so submit her self indeed to the true means to undo her bargain.

Observe I pray you how Satan be∣stirs himself.

First, in this case, he will not stick [146] to delude her with proffers of gold, and dainty fare, granting her opportu∣night,


to satisfy her lusts, where she likes, as her age and disposition is, hoping on kindness upon kindness unto her; fitting her with music and all carnal delights; flattering and crow∣ding most basely into them accor∣ding to their more stirring and ge∣nerous disposition.
If by these means he cannot yet make them sure, but that the sting of conscience doth still stagger, and cha∣lenge the bargain; then he disco∣reth him in another fashion.

1 Not only keeping them shorter, that they may fawn upon him, but threatening to discover them, that so they may undergo the punishmēt of the law.

2 Yea further also withdrawing himself from them, and so refusing to be at their check; yea crossing them in their desires, and contradicting or exceeding their commands.

3 If this will not prevail, then he causes them to renew their homage by yielding their blood, to bee sucked of him, which he will not fail now more freely to draw out, even to


fainting and extreme pining of his staggering proselite, and appearing fur∣there unto them in most fearful and ugly shape, thereby to hold them in with [149] fear, yea, not sticking sometimes to threaten with present death, by tearing them in pieces, scorching them with flaming flashes, &c. and all this to let them see what they are like to trust to: that so even through despair, they may rest content with their bar∣gain, [150] upon hope that their torments may be yet deferred, or at least upon necessity to please their cruel my∣ster, and so resolve to make the best of a bad market, and to take their pleasure while they may,: ot at least to prepare way hereby for their disco∣very, as being weary of his service, and greedy of further employment: It usually falling out in such cases, that when by these terrors of Satan, these filly souls shall be brought to de∣spear,
The horror of their Conscience will not let them be at rest: but obe∣scurely even now will not fail to use



often means of their discovery there by voluntarily coming to totalities afflicted, to be scratched of the or confessing themselves in general  tie, of such and such things, and their diligence about the distraught parties, and often enquiry concerning them, or else by their faint and sottish excuses of themselves. By such like means, I say, they will not obe∣scurely detect themselves, through the guilt of their conscience, and  hasten hereby their deserved vengeance.

CHAP. VIII.

Of the divers kinds of Witch-craft, where especially of Good and Bad Witches, and that the Good With is the most dangerous and powerful.


THere are two Principal kinds of Witch-craft. [151]

Namely, Divining, whereby strange things are revealed, namely the past, present, or to come; by the  stance of the Devil.


Or working, which is employed in the practise and real working of strange things or wonders.
Concerning the former of these; my purpose is so far to speak there∣of at this time, as may concern the Discovery of the Good Witch: who specially triumphs in this power of Divination, and conjecturing of un∣known and hidden things.

1 And therefore, first let vs con∣cider, By what means Satan may give notice of unknown things.

2 How far he can proceed herein. [152]

That Satan can discern (in some measure) things past, and such as are to come, is apparent.

1 Because he is acquainted with the prophecies of the word, and so steals out of them many secrets, concern∣ing things to come.

2 Satan being exquisitely skill∣full [153] in the knowledge of natural things, as of the influence of stars, constitutions of men, the kinds, and virtues of plants, roots, herbs, &c. may out of this experience give


probable guess, at events of things out of the certainty of their 
3 The presence of Satan and his evil Angels, in most places, and com∣municating [154] their knowledge toge∣there, where-through they are ac∣quainted with the secret consult with of Princes, may give also furtherance to this knowledge of things to come, as hereby being able to inform their Agents hereof, who acquainting by this means, the world withal gain this reputatiō, to foretell things to come

4 Add we hereunto, the power of Satan, in putting into men's minds, wicked [155] councels and purpòses: which he discer∣ning to be apprehended, & resolved on, doth thereby acquaint his Pro∣ctors herewith, and so they become to foretell of the same.

5 Consider we the agility of Satins nature, whereby being able to convey himself in a trice from place to place, he comes by this means to the no∣tice [156] of many strange and hidden things to the vulgar and ignorant, and so communicates them, to serve



his turn, to his Proselites and Cry∣tures.
6 Especially confider we, that Sa∣tan [157] being Gods instrument to execute his judgements in the world: hath therefore even from the Lord revealed unto him many things; as the place, time, [158] and manner, how such things should be done: which Satan (being no blab) can publish to serve his turn, so far as shall send to the trial of the Church, and stumbling of the vnbeleeuing world: thus he came to reveal unto Saul his end, as being in∣formed thereof by the Lord: who had taken his good Spirit from Saul, & left him to Satan, and so informed Satan in the means to execute his wrath upon him, 1. Sam. chapter 28. verses 20. 21.

Thus may Satan attain to some know∣ledge of things to come.

If we would know how far:

1 Surely, wee are to understand, [159] that to the Lord only belongs this absolute prerogatine, as to know things to come certainly, &c.


2 In The nature of the things th••∣selves, without respect to their causes and signs.
But Satan only knows them probably, and by their signs & causes.

This ground being laid, we may hence gather, that the good Witches being informed by Satan, know no further then their Tutor, that is, pro∣bably, doubtfully, and deceitfully: and therefore must needs deceive them∣selves and others.

This shall appear the rather, if we consider the means, whereby they attain to this knowledge: which being no ordinance of God, to re∣ueale secrets, nor any instinct of Na∣ture yielding directly such effects: it must needs follow, That the know∣ledge contrived there-from, prose∣death from Satins cunning, shrouding his familiarity and intelligence un∣der the rule of these creatures, that so it may not be discerned to come from him, but rather from the prediction of the Rule of Nature: as also, if it prove doubtful and contrary: yet



Sedans credit may be saved: seeing he can post it off to the vncertainety of the Creatures, or some accident al∣tering the former prediction.
It being most certain, that as the knowledge of Satan of himself, is at the best doubtful & conjectural in many things: so it becomes hereby much more intricate and deceitful, when it is shrouded under the mask of Na∣tures enfolded variety.

What this variety of Nature is, ap∣pears by the ancient practise of the hey∣then, among whom, by these & such like means Satan reigned as the un∣known God.

These were the Flight of Birds. [160]

2 The Entrails of beasts.
3 The observation of the Stars and those celestial bodies, Essay 44.
4 Dreams, Dan. 4.
5 Lots, Hest. 3.
Of all which we may thus conclude, That seeing 1 these were not ordai∣ned constantly to fore-tell things to come, 2 neither have any natural property inherent in them, yielding



such knowledge, or any likelihood thereto: neither indeed was it noses∣sarie that men should be acquainted with what is afterword, otherwise then may concern their Salvation: seeing the word is sufficient for this: therefore it follows necessarily:
1 That these are but Satins cloaks to conceal his immediate and dange∣rous Covenants with men.

2 That by these Satan withdraws men from embracing of the word.

3 That for the contemp• of the word, the Lord in justice gives up to be de∣ceiued by these, so far forth, as not [161] only to rest in these predictions, and so by the uncertainty thereof to bee confounded thereby: but as if so be the reason of this vncertainety, and fey∣ling in the success of these predicti∣once, proceeded rather from want of our [162] obsequiousness, and diligence in atten∣ding these predictions, then of any real improbability and absurdity in them: hereby Satan makes way for his further advancing in our hearts above all that is called God, by pro∣curing



vs to a more base subjection and bondage to the Law of the Creatures, toiling vs with a more painful stu∣die and inquisition into the books of the Creatures. And so provoking vs to a worship of the Creature, by confi∣dence therein, above the Creator blessed for evermore; And so in the Creature to worship the Devil e∣specially:
And that;

1 By obeying his council, in lea∣ding vs to know, what concerns vs not.
2 By using his means, for the compassing of this knowledge.
3 And by resting still in the means, though yet they doe deceive vs.
4 Embracing his intelligence, cloud∣ded under the veil of natural cau∣ses.
6 Referring the success of things, not to the providence of God, but to the po∣were of satā, ordering the same thereby.
For our further information herein, examine we in few words these kinds in particular, that so the vanity of


them, as they are used, in Witchcraft, may the more lively appear to vs.
First, concerning the flight of Birds, and the noise they make in the same, [163] this, as it is plainly condemned in Deuteronomy. 18. 10. & 11. so is there great reason hereof, seeing by no ordinance of God, or secret of Nature, the flying high or lowe, on the right hand, or on the left, the diversity of noise &c. can prognosticate of things to come.

As for the entrails of beasts, Ezech. [164] 21. 11. whereby Nehuchadnezzar is resolved in a doubtful case, whether to attempt first; either the Jaws, or Amonites: this also is a plain colour of Satins deceit, cōiecturing hereby, because neither by virtue of Cry∣tures, nor by any special ordinance of God afterword, have these Inwards of the Creatures any such power cō∣ferred into them, to fore-tell things to come. Indeed, there is some prediction naturally arising out of observation of the [165] seasons & alterations of weather, accrue∣ing to the Physician, Mariner, & Hus∣bondsman. And this according to that



order, God hath set in nature, from the beginning: but this is only pro∣babble, as to guess of fair or foul whether. Which, though they allow some pre∣dictions by these Creatures, yet are they no warrant for others, that are not ordained of God thereto.
And therefore, whereas it is ordi∣nary [166] to divine of future things, by some such like, as by finding a piece of iron, signifying good luck, but if sell∣for be found, then it is evil; to have a Hare cross the way; to have the salt fall towards him &c. these having no such virtue from Nature and divine ordi∣natiō, it must needs follow, that they are diabolical, or at least superstitious, & no way warrantable. Concerning divination by Stars, the matter seems more difficult.

For although the word seems to [167] condemn the same, Deuteronomy. 18. 10. 11. according to the judgment of the best Divines, who though they differ about the Notation of the word, yet [168] they agree all in this, that divination by Stars is directly forbidden: And


the Scriptures also in allotting the same Punishment to the starre-gazer, as to the Magician, doe confirm the same. Yet hath this skill gained great authority and account in the world, and doth much deceive the followers thereof: And that for these respects.
First, because the Stars are causes [169] of many things here below, and there∣fore it may seem lawful to conclude and conjecture from such causes.

And surely if they were particular [170] causes of these lower things, I see not but wee might conjecture some what in particular from them: If these Stars had power to communicate the knowledge thereof in particular unto vs, Or if it were needful that wee should know such particular events, Or there were no other means to communicate what is necessary unto vs: But Seeing [171] 1. the Stars are only general cau∣ses of things in the world, and that not certain and infallible, but variable and subordinate, to the will of the Creator, who can for his



Churches good, alter their particular effects. 2. Seeing they are no ordinance of God to reveal such things unto vs, as having no virtue from their general influence to dispose and determine of particulars. 3. Seeing it is is not need∣full wee should know of such particulars, any otherwise then the Word doth supply: And if this bee sufficient what need wee other? It must needs follow that these predictions are unlawful. 4. As rejected of the Lord, and therefore proceeding from the devil. 5. As presuming to fore-tell parti∣cular events of things, which only belong unto the all-seeing and most wise God.
2 If it be alleged, that What is [172] fore-told by Astrology, usually false out true, and therefore why may we not be informed hence?

We answer, 1. That though it fell out [173] true, yet were we not to enquire from hence, seeing the Word forbids the use of such means.

2 That things fall out true in particular proceeds not frō the necessary influ∣ence



of the heauēly bodies, but from the cunning of that infernal spirit, who supplies by his knowledge, what is uncertain in that Art, Inf•…∣ating himself into the mind of the Stargazer, being now puffed up with [174] his knowledge, and desiring success therein, to satisfy his pride, what art cannot make good, he yet desires may be accomplished. And so is giuē up to Satan in a just punishment of this his presumption, to be lessoned by him in such further Events: and yet most fearfully to be deceived by him to, as shrouding his devilish inspirati∣once under the cloak of that other∣wise lawful knowledge.
For not to deny that, which the e∣ujdence of things doth avouch in this case:

True it is, that the Sun and the Moon were created for signs, Genesis [175] 1. 14. and so, so far as they are or∣deigned for signs, namely, to destine∣guish Times and Seasons, as Summer, Winter, Spring. &c. Alterations of wea∣theirs in general, they are to be obe∣served



of vs: but, that hence we may gather any demonstration for the know∣ledge of particulars, to fall out in the world: seeing their grounds are vncer∣tain, and the mere fictions of mans brain, exalting himself herein in his Pride and Curiosity, above all that is called God. It must needs foal∣low, that this is but a cloak of Sa∣thans forgery, and not any Art al∣lowable from the Lord.
That the grounds are uncertain and [176] most deceitful, is apparent.

1 First, Because the Rules of this Art have no Foundation in Experience: Seeing both the position of the hey∣uens, and the course of the Stars is mutable, and therefore can be no Rule of certain and immutable grounds (such as the Principles of Art must be.)

2 And secondly, there can be no certain Rules given of those things, which are not known: Now, who know∣weth the particular estate of all the Stars? or if he know them, is there any yet able to discern the particular



virtues of them, seeing there influences in the Air, and upon the earth, are confused and uncertain?
3 But the special Reason of the un∣lawfulness of this Art, is because  requires confidence in the same, nay in the Author thereof; They must believe [177] he can resolve them: otherwise if he come doubting of his ability, or  way of tempting him, he cannot help him. Now in common understanding if the Diviner bring the thing to posse, here must needs be more then Art; For he that is Master of a law∣full Art, can work by his Rules, when∣there a man believe he can or no: And therefore it necessarily follows, that this Art is Diabolical, as requiring that service which is due only to God; and so thereby intending the bon∣dage of the soul, as is apparent by the Rules and Confessions of the Chal∣deans themselves.

If here it shall be questioned how Moses and Daniel can then be said to [178] have skill in all the wisdom of Egypt∣ans and Chaldeans, Act. 7. 22. Dan. 1. 17




The Answer is plain, either they [179] might have skill so far as was lawful, or though they understood the my∣sterie of these devilish Arts, yet it was not to practise, but rather to con∣damn th• same, and so to dehort from the study thereof.
Well, let this lesson Students, that [180] they be not bewitched with the glo∣rye & skill which this Art pretends.

Let it advice vs not to run to Figer∣flingers, [181] to recover things lost.

Let it admonish vs that it is de∣uillish [182] to observe the Sign for letting of blood, whose ground is mere super∣stitious and diabolical, seeing the ground is a mere Figment, namely; that there is a Zodiac and twelve Signs therein, being a device of Poetris and vain Philosophy, nature yielding no such Ransom, or Bull. &c. as they foo∣lishly imagine.

And the Device confounds it self, as is plain by the absurd relation and proportion between the Rule and the thing ruled, as that the Moon should rule in the cold and moist


parts, when she is in hot and designs, whereas rather when it is in hot Signs, it should rule the hot parts and so contrary.
So that now the Learned Physician hath disclaimed this Bug-beare, and therefore if it prevail, it rather pro∣ceeds from our strong imagination and Gods divine Justice, in punishing our infi∣delight, then from any power in that Poetical Fiction.

4 Let this also reform in 〈◊〉 That superstitious observation of days [183] and times, as if some were lucky and successful, others evil and unlucky.

Wherein if the success answer our conceit, it proceeds not from the Order in Nature, or Rules of Art, but from Diabolical confidence, and Divine Justice, giving up to be decay∣ued with our own counsels, and so by degrees, to grow further in league and bondage unto Satan.

Now concerning prediction by [184] dreams, though it must needs bee granted that this was one of Gods Ordinances to reveal his will unto



his servants, as Numb. 12. 6. Iob. 33. 15. Math. 1. 20. 2. 13. 19. Gen. 37. 7. 9. & 41. 25. Dan. 9. &c. Yet hath Satan cunningly imitated God even in this point also, to deceive his Proselites by Dreams and Visions, and so thereby to enable them to fore-tell things to come; as appears, Deuteronomy. 13. 3. Ier. 23. 25.
The Mastery will bee how wee [185] shall discern and distinguish between these Dreams: To this end

Let vs take notice that as there are Three sorts of dreams:

1 Such as prooeed immediately from the Lord, as those before, and there∣fore called Diuinè.

2 Natural dreams, proceeding from natural causes: 1. As thoughts of the mind: 2. Affections of the heart; 3. Or constitution of the by∣die, according to which sutably several dreams do follow: To Cho∣lericke [186] persons dreams of Wars, to Phelegmaticke of Waters, Fearful dreams to Melancholic per∣sons, &c.



2 And so also by these Dreams may we conjecture of the sins of the [187] heart: because what we conceive of practise in the day, will be corruptly dreamed of in the night, to make v• more in exeusable.
3 Devilish Dreams framed in [188] the brain by Satan; answerable •o our desires, as appears not only by the practise of the Gentiles, who received their answers by Dreams, but also by the practise of Heretikes, as the Maniches, Anabaptists, Fami∣lists, &c. who have been confirmed in their devilish errors, by Reuela∣tions and Dreams.

Thus, as hereby it is apparent, there are divers kinds of Dreams: so may wee also for our Instruction, observe many lively differences be∣tweene Divine and Satanicall Dreams. As,

First, divine Dreams concern General and Necessary things to bee known, as the coming of Christ, Revealing of Antichrist, & etc but those from Satan, are either of



curious, or trivial and vain mat∣ters, either not fit, or worthy to be known.
If it shall be said, That the Sybills [189] Satins prophets spake of these things: the answer is,

1 That so far as they spake of them, they had their information from Satan, who being acquainted [190] with the prophecies, did inform his disciples accordingly:

2 Yet so, as that neither could he acquaint them with any distinct or clear knowledge thereof: but rather only in a confused and dark man∣ner, whereby they might rather stumble, then inform others to believe the same, neither did his prophets love and affect the things that were re∣uealed, but rather were constrained to publish so much, as might make [191] the times inexcusable, and so had •o power to benefit others thereby.

But in Divine Dreams the case is clean contrary, for in this place here is vouchsafed un∣to vs, both a very clear and

manifest revelation of such things as concern the good of the Church.
2 The mind of Gods serve•nts are affected and subdued to believe the same.

3 And they are enabled to com∣municate so far unto others, as that so many as are ordained to salvation shall [192] give credit and obedience thereunto: And the rather,

Because these Divine Dreams are not only agreeable unto the blessed Word, and so safely to bee believed, whereas Satanicall Dreams, as they are diverse, or contrary to the Word, so they labour especially to with∣draw from obedience thereunto.

4 But especially, whereas the end of Satins Enthusiasms is to set up Idolatry, and nourish all Atheism and security, Deu. 13. On the country∣rye, Divine Dreams aim only at the True worship of God, and further the doctrine and obedience of the Gospel.

5 And here wee are wisely also to distinguish of the Times, For see∣ing



now we have the Gospel sufficient [193] to reveal the will of God, therefore we are not in these days to build upon Dreams; so that howsoever they were ordinary before and under the Law, yet now if any shall rest here∣in, and expect resolution hereby, wee are to conclude that it is rather a Satanicall illusion then any warning from the Lord, and therefore at no hand to be heeded of vs.
As touching Divination by Lots, [194] herein also wee had need to bee in∣formed, the rather because this De∣lusion is common and prevailing with the ignorant sort, to abuse the same to wicked ends, and so therein to offer sacrifice to the devil: And therefore,

Though there may bee some law∣full [195] use hereof, as in Civil Occasi∣once, to

Divide Lands, discide controversies in a case of importance and necssity, Iosh. 14. 2. Acts 1. 26. &c. so the Name of God bee called upon, and his prove∣dence attended, and obeyed in the



success thereof. Yet neither are [196] wee allowed to use Lots in jest, in trivial and unnecessary means, as to set up Banqrouts, to further Plan∣tations, &c. by raising sums of money thereby, seeing this may bee obtained by other means; Much less in Gaming, to sport our selves hereby.
Especially wee are here to be∣ware of such Lottery as tends to re∣solve doubtful things, or fore-know things to come, either by opening a [197] Book, casting a Die, to declare good or bad success; seeing this both im∣plies a secret belief, that such a fear can do it, and so is a worshipping of the devil, &c. seeing by no secret property to that means such things are effected, it must needs follow that it is but Satins colour, to hide his familiarity with the wic∣ked.

Hitherto of Divination by true cre∣atures. And doth not Satan also de∣ceiue by forged means?

Yea certainly, as first by ensue∣ring



in the shape of a dead man. Exam∣ple [198] hereof wee have in that answer unto Saul, where Satan deludes the King with the appearance of Samuels person, when indeed it was only the cunning of Satan, resembling and counterfeiting the same: As is mani∣fest; First
Because the Lord had denied to an∣swear [199] Saul by ordinary lawful means, and therefore would not endure to have Samuel raised up to answer him extraordinarily: Luke 16.

2 The Bodies and souls of the Saints departed are in the hands of God resting from their labours, and there∣fore Satan could not have power to fetch the soul from heaven, though he might prevail to raise the body frō the earth, which yet I see no rea∣son for, seeing the body also must rest; at least frō Satins power? And would Samuel, think you, suffer Saul to adore him? Surely it is the devil that seeks honour and homage from men, as for the Saints, they strive to give all power and honour unto God, Act. 10.



Reu. 22. 8. 9. Add hereunto that true Samuel would have reproved Saul for running to Witches, he would have exhorted him to ripen∣tance.
1 And therefore, though the [200] Word call him Samuel, yet this was according to that, which seemed to delude Saul.

2 And though Saul might bee told by the Appearance what should befall him, yet might this bee done by Satan, as being either ac∣quainted by the Lord with his pur∣pose herein, or conjecturing by Sauls case what was like to come to him for his disobedience to God.

As for that which the Church of Rome dotes concerning the walking [201] of dead men, howsoever the Lord gave power unto his Prophets to raise the dead, yet neither had this Witch any such power, neither was the case necessary why it should be at this time, neither needed Satan to use this means, seeing he might doe



the feat, as well by himself coun∣terfeting the shape and person of Sa∣muel: Neither may extraordinary and miraculous working, upon spe∣ciall occasion, bee traduced to war∣rant the ordinary walking of per∣sons after their deaths, whose souls, the Holy Ghost witnesses to bee at rest, and can their bodies walk with∣out their souls?
Indeed when the Lord was either [202] to plant or restore a Church out of it ruin and desolation, wee find in the Word this power of raising from the dead to have been exercised pro∣fitably; and therefore seeing now there was no such cause for this mi∣raculous work, it follows to bee the delusion of Satan, and not the finger of God.

But here me thinks I here some [203] reply that if this were but a collu∣zion of Satan blinding and decay∣uing Saul, why might he not also deeceiue the Witch, as pretending to bee raised up by her, that she had power of him, when it might


bee but some juggling trick to blear her eyes; she raised up no devil in Samuels likeness, but rather was merely deluded with a conceit hereof.
Surely, howsoever the Patrones [204] of Witch-craft would gladly thus cōclude to condemnethe truth of the Word, that there are Witches, which work by Familiar spirits; yet doth the circumstance of the History plain∣lie confound them: Howsoever they also imply further, that the Witch might suborn some man or wo•… in the likeness of Samuel to g•… this answer: seeing no mere hue∣mane understanding •onld attain 〈◊〉 that knowledge, And therefore it no∣cessarily follows, that the Witch, by virtue of the covenant with Sat•…, raised him up; He by his power and skill counterfeited Samuel at an inch, by his experience and office wa• able to acquaint him with Gods will, and so as an instrument of Divine vengeance to hasten him to his de∣struction.


And as Satan thus foretells things [205] by means, either true or counter∣feit: so doth he also Divine without means, either possessing those that are his oracles, Acts the sixteen chap∣la and sixteen verse: or inspiring them by outward obsession with his [206] will and counsels, whereby they become counterfeit prophets, and re∣uealers of things to come; such as were the Sybills, &c.
Of all which wee are to make this [207] use: 1 As to judge wisely of the power and manifold cunning of Sa∣than, 2 So to consider of the price∣ousnesse of the soul, for which Satan takes such pains, becomes such a drudge, &c. and to prevent the Di∣uell by our care and diligence, not so much for the body and the meat that perishes, but for the poor soul, that it may be saved euerla∣stingly.

3 Lastly, seeing Satan by these Inspirations and Exorcisms decay∣ueth the simple and unstable souls, causing them to believe that such



trances and inspirations are from [208] God; therefore learn we to distinguish between Diabolical Revelations and the true gift of Prophecy, which God in Trances reveals unto his servants.
As first, Divine Trances may bee where the soul for a time is sent from the body, 2. Cor. 12. 2. But in these Diabolical though the senses may bee bound, or benumbed for a time, yet the soul is never severed from the body, because this is a work miraculous to take the soul out of the body, and revnite it again.

2 In Divine Trances the pores and faculties of soul and body though their operations cease for a time, yet remain sound and perfect; but in Satanicall Ecstasies, the parties being cast into frenzies and madness, the very faculties of na∣ture are impaired, and and so distem∣pered as that they seldom recover the right use again: At the best, they cary some scar of Satan to their graves; whereas the Saints



receive a further measure of Illumi∣nation, and increase of grace in all their powers and faculties:
3 Divine trances do always tend to the good of the Church, confirmation of the Gospel, and advancement of Piety, Acts 10. 11. those of Satan to the contrary.

And thus far of Witch-craft by Divination.


CHAP. IX.

Of Witch-craft consisting in Opera∣tion.


COnsider we now of Witch-craft in operation: which really works strange things. [209]

This is done, first, by Enchant∣meant; namely, when by some Charm wondrous works are wrought.

Which is not only expressly for∣bidden, Deuter. chapter 18. verse 11.



but is also manifest by the thin•• wrought hereby. As,
1 Raising of Stormts.
2 Poisoning of the air.
3 Blasting of Corn.
4 Killing of Cattle.
5 Breeding strange torments in the bodies of men.
6 Casting out of Devils, &c.
All which, and such like, works belōging to the divine power, & just•…, If therefore they shall be imitated, 〈◊〉 in any measure effected, by the cry∣ture; It is a plain usurpation of the di∣vine office, and a flat peruersion & dis∣gracing of the divine Prouidēce, as be∣ing accomplished by indirect means.

Now, that these, and such, are the of∣fects [210] of Witch-craft,

It is not only apparent by the Confession of Witches themselves: but further cleared by the testimony of the word; who ascribeth this power unto [211] the Charmer, Eccles. 10. 11. where the Original yields thus: If the Serpent bite before he be charmed, what profit hath the master of the tongue thereby



that is the Charmer? signifying there∣in, that if the Charmer come in time, he might prevent by his charm, the Serpents stinging.
And what else (I pray you) doth Balaams words implie, when being crossed by the power and mercy of God, he is forced to confess, that there is no sorcery against Iacob, nor sooth saying against Israel: Doth he not [212] therein acknowledge, That where∣as he was hired by King Balaac by some charm to hurt Gods People, (as being by Trade no better then a Conjurer, though in the reputation of the ignorant and superstitious peo∣ple he was esteemed a Prophet) his Charms could not prevail, the Lord disappointed him.

And surely, if wee should con∣cider [213] the nature of a Charm, it will evidently appear, that it is but a colourable and counterfeit means, under which Satan shrouds his power and malice to divine withal, and so to destroy both body and soul

Seeing a Charm is no other then [214] a spell consisting of strange words, wherein is pretended some secret efficacy, to bring forth some extraordinary work. It no∣cessarily follows, 1 that by the ve∣rye nature of the words, and 2 quality of the parties that use them, they are no better then Sedans cloaks to convey his mischiefs more closely, for the endangering of the soul.
The words are either barbarous & [215] unknown, as were such, which in times of Ignorance and Infidelity were used. And that these could work no such effect, it appears:

1 because this was no ordinance of God to this end, as having neither a∣ny power thereto by right of creation, or by any new institution, and gift from God: That they have no power by ver∣tu of creation, it is manifest, I because words are but sounds, and so posse into the air, without any further effect.

2 If they had power to hurt, or do good, it must needs be by some conti∣quite and presence with the thing it works upon; & therefore seeing these



words are spoken concerning parties and things absent, and far distant, and therefore they have no power, as is pretended.
And if some words should be effe∣ctuall of themselves: why then not all words of all sorts, tending to bless∣sing or cursing: but this is presumed, that only words proceeding from such cunning men and women, are avail∣ble; and therefore it is not the words themselves, but some other secret Magical compact with such persons that effect the same.

If it be replied, that these words [216] have signification; and happily be un∣derstood of the parties that use them reciprocally: Yet seeing they have [217] in themselves no further use then for what they signify, and though they be understood, as the charms are now, as being of known names, and yet still can they not of themselves further avail, then to the Ends they were appointed. And there∣fore it follows, that they are no better then Signs and Watch-wordes



to Satan to work his wonders by.
For though the name of the Tri∣night and Sacrament, serve to that end they were appointed, namely, to no∣rich the soul: yet to effect wonders by these, seeing it is contrary to their Institution, &c. that blessing of God especially accompanying them, it foe∣loweth, that when they are abused to other ends, as in charms. &c. they are the devils sacraments, to effect his tricks, by virtue of the compact be∣tweene the witch and him: whereby he seems to be bound and compel∣led to serve his turn, the rather here∣by to colour the wickedness, as if now it were done by the power of God, resembled in these words, and not by the illusion & cunning of Satan.

As for the power of Imagination in [218] this case, which is pretēded to be the occasiō of those strange effects; sure∣lie, though it cannot be denied, but that our imaginatiō may hurt our selves yet that the imagination of the W•… should hurt others, or that these words poceeding from her conceit,



should so prevail on the bodies and minds of such as are afar off, it is contrary to reason, & common sense.
And therefore, though it be con∣ceited, [219] that the Witch by her looks may effect these things: or having some boy∣sonous quality in them, to infect the ayre; so the bodies of men, though this be a mere dotage, fitter for such bedlams, then to be corrected by a∣ny sound Judgment: yet, how can this hurt those which are absent?

Neither will it further this dotage, [220] that either Iacobs sheep, by looking upon the rods speckled and partie-coloured, brought forth the like: seeing this was an especial work of God, to bless Iacob, not any inherent virtue in the rods, or the eyes of the sheep, because here was some likelihood in nature hereto.

Much less shall that prevail, that [221] the Basilisk kills with her sight; and the woolfe takes away the voice of such as he suddenly meets withal, see∣ing, as there is no ground of expo∣rience concerning these things, but only a common received error:



so; if any such thing be, it may pro∣ceede from some force in Nature in∣cident to those creatures, as the Ba∣siliske being a poisonous substance, may infect the ayre, and so take away life, or else from some sudden asto∣nishment in such as unexpectedly meet with them, causing strange al∣teration in the mind by fear and so effecting such stange things.
But they allege further, if En∣chanters [222] can stay by their Charms the stinging of Serpents, then cer∣tainely there is some force in these words.

Unto which we answer, That the power proceeds not from any ver∣tu in the words, but by the pre∣sense of Satan through compact with the Charmer, as the word is plain, joy∣ned sometimes very cunningly with the devil, seeing no other, although he use the same words, can effect the like things.

If it be said, this is, because he hath not the same faith: this discovers the [223] root of bitterness, and argues them



plainly to be Diabolical: as being both the bond of the Covenant, where∣by Satan is tied to the Witch: he doth all on this condition, that he is ac∣knowledged as her god, she must trust in him, resign up her self who∣lie to his pleasure.
As also by this bond, the Witch ties her Proselites to her dispose: she can doe nothing for them, unless they believe in her, and so she enthral∣leth their souls, while she pretends good to their bodies.

This will yet appear more eui∣dent, if we consider the quality of the best and most colourable charms, that are used to this end: Namely, words of holy Scripture: which seeing they [224] have their virtue not from him that utters them, much less from the power of the words in themselves, but from the alone efficacy of the Spirit of God, annexed by GODS promise hereunto, when the word is used as his ordinance: seeing therefore this is no ordinance of God to such ends, & therefore can not proceed from the



operation of the good spirit of God: it follows necessarily, that it is the power of satan, shrouded under these forms of speech, especially, seeing it is not used to the conversion of sinners, which is the right end; but to wic∣ked or unnecessary purposes, as ray∣sing of devils, killing of creatures, infect∣ing of the air, &c.
And seeing the word is only effe∣ctuall, [225] not by reason of the sound, or letter thereof, but when it is 1 con∣ceiued in the mind, 2 received with [226] reverence, 3 treasured in the me∣mori, 4 and mingled with faith in the heart: seeing it is muttered in these charms; 1 without vnderstan∣ding, as being in an unknown tongue, 2 without faith, and 3 to wicked pur∣poses.

It must needs be some Satanicall colour to conceal desperate wicked∣nes. And so, though it be not abused of all so far forth, that it may include [227] them within the compass of such charms, which have entered into this certain league with Satan:


yet seeing for want of conscionable [228] understanding, and obedience there∣unto, it is made no better then a charm to the common sort: therefore, as here∣in they bewray themselves in gene∣rall to be yet held under Satins bon∣dage, so are they hereby both sub∣jest the rather to the power of witch craft, not only to be obnoxious to the hurts thereof, in their bodies & goods, &c. but especially to be ensna∣red with the Mystery thereof, upon any occasion to become novices & factors in this devilish trade: it being just with the glorious Lord, to give up such as will not obey the truth, to the of∣ficacie and depth of these strong de∣lusions, not only to be deceived thē∣selves, but to become Sedans chief Schoolemaisters to deceive others.
The like may be concluded of such other means whereby Witches use to perform their Charms.

As making of Characters, Images, [229] and Signs in Wax, or Clay, & framing of Circles, using of Amulets, Exer∣cisms; an ordinary Practise of


the Apostate Church, conjuring thereby their Cream, Salt, Spittle, ho∣lie Water, Oil, Palms, &c. using of the Name of Iesus with such often re∣petitions and Crosses annexed. All which, & such like, being no secret o∣peration of Nature, nor ordinance of God to such ends: What other can they be, but the Visors of Satan, where∣by he masks it more securely, and dangerously in his Magical practi∣ses, as hereby bearing the simple people in hand, that Christ is a Con∣juror, that he is bound by those from doing hurt, to do good &c. And shall we think that crossing of the body, is of any other stamp: surely it is of all o∣there a most dangerous charm, by how much it caries a show of love and de∣uotion.
So may wee judge of scratching of [230] the Witch, unto which if the Devil seem to stoop, that the body is ca∣sed, it is to seize more deeply on the soul, by withdrawing it from the right means, and resting it securely in these devilish charms.





Which, as it may seem to admo∣nish vs frō the use of them, so it may [231] provoke such to repentance, having done these of ignorance, not conten∣ting themselves with this excuse, that they meant no hurt, they concei∣ued the persons to bee honest of whom they sought help, &c. Seeing because they had no certain war∣rant, therefore good meaning with∣out faith, is sin before God, Rome. 14. nay while they mean well, they trust in these things, and so doe rob God of his glory, and themselves, as much as lies in them, of their salvation.
Neither is there the like reason [232] between Physic and these means: That is ordained of God, This, con∣damned of him; and therefore though we are ignorant of the Phy∣sitions Receipt, yet we are to rely up∣on his skill, and commend the suc∣cesse to God: whereas wee may not use these charms being ignorant of of the virtue of them, seeing there can no blessing follow where God leads not; where confidence is put



in the means to thrust out God.
As for the Case of necessity which is here pretended; wee can have help no where else; The Physician will not meddle, the Pain is intole∣rabble, the case desperate, and God is merciful though we do amiss, yet may wee not seek ease; surely, The Lord will not bee merciful to pressump∣tuous sinners, If he purpose to try thy faith and patience in the enduring of the extremity; if he entend here∣by to fit thee for himself, and to ease thee of thy sins, and this mi∣serable world, Is it not good way∣ting his leisure to prepare thy self unto him? Instead of going to the Wise-man, is it not now time to make up thy accounts, to make thy peace with him? Certainly, when all lawful means fail, what doth this argue but that either this is a sign of the end of thy days; or that the Lord will help thee by his immediate [233] hand? And therefore either way thou must now cast thy self upon him. If the Lord cannot help thee,


much less shall the devil: and the Lord will help thee, as shall bee best for his glory, and thy good: and therefore in all thy ways ac∣knowledge him, Proverb 3. And though he should kill thee, yet trust thou in him, Iob. 13. 15. He shall bee unto thee both in life and death advantage: Phil. 1.
Hitherto of that part of operatiue Witch-craft which is performed by charms. Besides this there is another work of Sorcery, usually practised [234] by Satins instruments, which is com∣monly called Juggling; When strange Feats are performed, not by real charms, but only by deluding of the eye, and some extraordinary slight: Not that any such thing is effected in Truth, but only in Appearance, to the de∣ceiued judgment, being perverted by such delusions as the eye falsely apprehends.

Now the Eye may be deluded. [235]

First, by corrupting the humour of the eye, being the next instrument of sight.

2 By Altering the Air whereby the object is conueyed to the eye.
3 By changing the object which is discerned.
That there may be such delusion, not only the Holy Ghost witnesses of the Galatians and others, who [236] were then bewitched, and made be∣leeue that they saw that, which in∣deed they saw not; but experience doth daily make it manifest.

Concerning the slight done above [237] the course of Nature: As this ma∣keth this Trade to be plain Sorcery, because it exceeds Natures comps, so it necessarily follows that some skill of Satan is concurring herein, As being by compact with the Jug∣ler to colour and further him herein, either by corrupting the humour of the eye, or colouring the air, &c. which are things possible for Satan to do. For howsoever some strange things may bee done by bodily sleights [238] and by Optic Arts, yet these are kept within the compass of nature But the Juggler undertakes things


impossible and contrary to Nature, as to transform one creature into ano∣there, or else, to create and offer things that are not, and so seems to arro∣gate divine power, in such works of Creation, and therefore must needs delude only the eye with the appea∣rance of such things, seeing he can∣not possibly do the things indeed.
Such were the wonders wrought by the Egyptian Enchanters, in imita∣tion of Moses, when they turned the [239] Rod into a Serpent, and waters into blood: which, that it was a plain delusion of the eye, by Sedans for∣gerie, is manifest, because they could not be any real creatures: seeing the Lord did not make them, and the di∣uell could not, the works of ordi∣nary Creation ceasing, and no spe∣ciall reason now to be given, why miraculously any such Creation should be renewed by those servants of Pharaoh: but rather plain reason for the contrary, seeing this they did, tended to the disgrace of Gods work, by his servants Moses and



Aaron, and therefore though they could have done such a work, yet the Lord at this time would not have endured it at their hands.
But it is most apparent that Sat•• can doe no such thing, seeing the effecting of the like belongs only to God, Ioh. 2. And the Word is plain, that this their fained miracle was done by Sorcery, Exod. 7. 11. 22. & 8. 7. And therefore that the Lord should do them against him∣self, it is altogether absurd and blasphemous to grant: And the cur∣cumstances doe plainly euince that they were not natural frogs, by such differences as are manifest between them, and those that Moses created by the finger of God.

As 1. That the Frogs created by Moses caused great stink by the corruption that they bred, being ga∣thered on heaps, whereas there is no such ascribed to the Frogs of the Enchanters.

And, so the blood which Moses brought forth, killed the fish, and stanck


so that the Egiptians could not drink thereof; no such effect appearing from the Magicians Transmutation.
And is it likely that they which could have created these frogs, could not also have destroyed the lice? Could not have preserved them∣selves from those fearful plagues? Exod. 8. 18. Nay they confess that they were not able to bring forth lice by their enchantment, much less destroy them.

And seeing that Moses serpents de∣uoured them, and yet retained their former quality, it necessarily follow∣eth that they were no true serpents, the rather because usually one cry∣ture doth not devour another of the same kind.

And surely why could they not as well have removed such as Moses made, as well as they had power to make the same?




CHAP. X.

Of the Subject of Witch-craft.


NOw let vs come to the maine Subject and Occasion of this Treatise:

Namely, to consider of the Pra∣ctiser of this Mystery, to wit, the witch, whether man or woman.

And here, first consider wee the General Notion or Description of a Witch.

Secondly, wee will resolve these points, 1 Whether men as well as wo∣men, may not bee Practitioner's in this Art:

And yet, Why more women then men are engaged therein.

Thirdly, we will lay down the divers kinds of these Witches: namely, 1 The Bad Witch, which is the 

2 The Good Witch, as they are termed, because they doe seem to help.





Where it shall bee resolved.
1 Why Satan uses these seue∣rall instruments for these contrary ends.
2 Whether the good Witch cannot hurt, or the bad Witch help.
3 What places are especially infested with Witches.

SECTIO. I.
AS touching the General Descrip∣tion of a Witch

It may be thus.

A Witch is a Magician, who, either by open or secret league, wittingly and willingly, consents to use the aide of the devil in working of Wonders.

A Magician, I say, to signify that that she professes and practises this Art, Acts 8. 9. For that is the general name to all such as practise these unlawful Arts.

2 I add, that consents to use the help of the devil, either by or


secret league wittingly and willingly, which is the very proper passion, or certain means to make her a Witch.
Excluding herein,

First, such as be tainted with frenzy [240] or weakness of brain, and so are thereby deluded by the De∣will:

Because howsoever Satan may work upon and by these, yet they never give Real and Willing consent unto him.

2 Such as are Demoniackes, pos∣sessed [241] by him, whereof though some are properly Witches, as con∣scenting to him, and so he possessing them out of them speaks, by them working strange things: yet others though they bee possessed, yet they consent not thereto, they in their spirits strive against him: and so Satan doth in them, and by them, strange things; as spea∣king strange Languages, doing things of extraordinary strength, &c. which by the mercy of GOD


though they afflict the body, yet they may tend to the salvation of the soul.
3 By this circumstance are ex∣cluded [242] those That of blind zeal, and Ignorant superstition use such charms to bring things to posse, either thinking they have virtue in them thereto, or else not knowing the deepenesse of Satan herein: who though they defy the devil, as they [243] say, and indeed are not yet brought to this league, yet doe they sin grievously herein, and unless they repent, may justly pro∣uoke the Lord to give them up to this or the like, desperate and repro∣bate sense.

A third thing in this description, is the End of this Trade, namely, To work Wonders.

It being the Pride of Satan to ad∣uance himself hereby as God, in the children of disobedience, and by these manifold tricks and glorious shows, to detain the miserable people in vile Ignorance


and Idolatry, and to hinder them from embracing the glorious Gospel of Iesus Christ; practising to this end, by his instruments, sometimes true, as by Divinations and Charms, and otherwise feigned works, as by Juggling, to puff them up al∣so with a vain conceit of Di∣vine Power, thereby to secure them of their imaginary happiness, and so to draw them more secure∣lie to eternal vengeance, by ena∣bling them hereby to execute their several lusts with greediness, and using them as dangerous instruments to deceive others.
Such were Balaam, the Enchanters of Egypt, the Witch of Endor, Simon Magus, Bariesus, Elimas the Sor∣cerer, the Pythonysse at Phillipi, &c. Acts the sixteenth, Numb. the twen∣tie two, Acts the eighth.

By which description and exam∣ples, the first Question is resolved, namely, that men, as well as women, may be subject to this Trade; seeing as both are subject to the State of dam∣nation,



so both are liable to Satins snares, who hath several tricks and colours, in this Mystery of iniquity, to bait each according to their seue∣rall abilities and uses in the world, thereby the rather to fetch them over to this de•estable Art.
For whereas man by Ordination is [244] fitter to command, and the woman to obey, therefore hath the God of this world, for ambitions and aspiring men so suitable a point in this Trade, as to lead him thereto, with pre∣tence of Sovereignty, that he shall [245] command the devil, in a more secure and solemn manner, colouring the same by those manifold delusions, of Circles, Characters, &c. to this end, as are usually practised in that high skill of conjuration. By the which ceremonies and solemnities as Satan procures in the mind of ambitious and curious man some higher conceit of this sovereign skill; so doth he thereby more deeply cozen him, as fetching him of more roundly hereby to the



intended bargain, even to sub∣jest his soul in hope of this power.
To this end we may observe, that though the maine end bee one, in these Diabolical Arts, even to enthral the soul in perpetual bondage, yet hath Satan divers means to attain these ends, both answerable to the several conditions of the world, and particular estates and qualities of men: Accor∣ding to which diversity, this Art, though it bee one in effect, yet hath it obtained divers names, and fundry respects.

Concerning the Times, as they have obtained more or less light of the knowledge of God, so hath Satan fitted himself in his policies accordingly. When, and where, there hath been none, or less reave∣lotion of the Gospel, there hath Sa∣tans [246] appearances and workings been more carnal and preceptible to common sense, his suggestions and devices more gross and palpable, his attempts more open and natu∣rall,


his worship more terrible to the flesh; as appearing ordinarily in ugly shapes, being worshipped in most horrible forms, presented with most cruel and bloody sacrifices, and hono∣red with all gross and shameless open filthiness. So did the Heathen, in their first rude and barbarous estate, worcester∣ship the devil; then needed they no covenant to bind them from God to Sa∣tan, when they acknowledged no other God but him: him they served that he might doe them good; him they worshipped for fear, least he should hurt them.
As Barbarousnesse decayed, and Ci∣uilitie, by settled Government, began to take place, &c. so knowledge and skill was advanced among men, where∣by gross wickedness was some∣what bridled, and moral honesty, for the common and private good sake, was now outwardly embraced; Hereupon Satan spinnes a finer third of more colourable idolatry, and that by these means. Benefactors of Commonwealths, and Deliverers of



their Countries from Tyrants, not knowing God, were apt to rob him of his glory, seeking their own glory and eternizing, by their Renow•ed Acts.
This Satan discerning, doth easi∣lie insinuate into them, and procu∣ring some secret assent from them, by his skill and power enables them to doe Wonders; Hereupon the peo∣ple cry, The Voice of God and not of man, Act. 12. And this falls out the rather, because the ignorant and godless people, receiving good from them, cannot bee contained in any sober measure of respect towards them, but think even all Divine Honour too little for them. So wee find that Heathen Princes were many of them great Magicians and Conjurers, as gaining hereby an Opinion of Deity: And so did the people worship them with Divine Honour, yea ascribed them, being translated among the number of the Gods.

Thus became this Art of Sorcery

As Companion of great Princes and migh∣tie Conquerors: by this they attained many great enterprises in the world, and gained an opinion of Omnipo∣tencie and Eternity.
And was there not another means herein to set up this Art, in that age of Knowledge, and greater Civility? Yea certainly.

As conquest brought forth Peace, so Peace yielded liberty for knowledge and liberal studies: And Knowledge brought forth Pride to bee excellent therein, and Pride begets curio∣sitie to search into hidden mysteries, and curiosity breeds discontent, and restless disquiet: hereupon Satan works: ministers content to the mind by yielding it that which Art could not reach unto; so curiosity is satisfied, and pride nourished, and the soul through Pride enthralled to Satan, and yet deluded justly with the same colour of Art: under which Satan hiding his secret com∣pacts doth either persuade them, that it is done by art, which is



done indeed by his assistance, or sa∣tisfies them, that it is done by some Power over Satan, and therefore they need not fear subjection to Satan. Hitherto served those Charms, Cir∣cles, Characters, &c. by which Satan seeming to be bound, deluded them with a vain conceit of his subject∣on to them. And so as men were ei∣there more ambitious after honour, or curious after knowledge, so did Sa∣than bait his devilish Art with more abundance of pompous and curious cere∣monies, the rather to fetch over these glorious fools thereto: and so he easily prevailed over the profoundest scho∣lers; the Gymnosophists of Egypt, Magi of Child, Sages of Greece &c. most whereof gained their chiefest credit by this, that they were most skilful in this devilish Trade.
And so, because men were fittest for these ends, either to conquer King∣domes, or seek after knowledge, so in these respects usually the Male sex have been trained to this Art. By this they have attained the reputati∣on


of Wisdom and Empery.
Succeeding Ages gave occasion to Satan to work more closely, & yet to weave his Idolatry with a finer thread.

For, together with the knowledge of humane Arts, and Sciences which resembled some sparks of divine light, brake out also at length the day Star of Righteousness Iesus Christ, bringing with him saving knowledge, and dispel∣ling the more grosser mists of Hey∣thenish [247] Idolatry; as being no way sit to encounter therewith: or at least in Policy, not thinking it meet open∣lie to oppose the same; but rather by a more secret and colourable means, by closing therewith, to obscure, and so by degrees to banish the same.

Thus became Satan transformed [248] into an Angel of Light; and taking advantage of the pride of Nature, and vnthankefulnesse of men, that would not obey the Gospel, but rather pervert it, to justify the flesh▪ As they were therefore given up justly by the Lord to strong delusions so is Satan still ready at a pinch to be∣guile


unstable souls, and instead of the purity and simplicity of the Go∣spell, to draw them by degrees into a Mystery of Iniquity, and so in the end, to most gross and palpable I∣dolatrie, iustifying and exceeding the most barbarous Heathens there∣in.
To this end, even so soon as the good Householder had sown his Seed, the envious man was ready to sow his Tares, raising up false apostles to withdraw the people from the Simon∣plicitie [249] of the Gospel, and so to pre∣pare them, by giving liberty to the [250] flesh, to that corruption of doctrine, which afterwards ouer-spread the face of the Churches.

And at the first assault Satan so prevailed, as that how soever, as yet the light of Judgment remained with the Church, as being able to discernment of Spirits, even to discover such as said they were Apostles, & yet in truth, were no better then Sedans Ministers: yet, by reason that the flesh was will∣ling to cast off the yoke, and apt to



turn the graces of God into wan∣tonnes: hereupon zeal began to decay, even with the best, first [251] love was left; the bond of Perfection, and so way hereby made to carnal liberty, and for the maintenance thereof.
Corrupt doctrine by degrees was hatched, and embraced: whereof as the Purest times were not altogether [252] free, as may appear by the Nicolai∣tans and others, that went out even from amongst the Apostles, both to gross profaneness, and also to Do∣ctrines of devils, for the iustifying there∣of: So appeared hereupon the great [253] mercy of God in casting this Iezabel [254] into a bed of affliction, and encrea∣sing his Church graciously with those ten bloody and desperate persecu∣tions, for the purging out of her dross, and renewing of her first love: Whereby, as she wanne unto her the hearts of her enemies; so by this means she gained great friends: even the kings of the earth began to worship the Lord: and the mightiest became nursing Fa∣theirs and foster Mothers, Essay chapter

49. chapter, to the distressed Church of God.
And now behold, the great harvest of the Gentiles being wel-neare in, & so the man-child being borne unto God; the time was come, for the fur∣there [255] revelation of Gods justice, for the former affliction of his Church. And also to manifest yet further his great mercies unto his Church, in exerci∣sing the same with new afflictions, for the preventing of that security, and purging out the carnallnesse, which by the favour and arm of flesh had grown in the Church.

For even thus it befell with the dear Spouse of CHRIST, that as her former afflictions, had now fit∣ted her to some rest, which she at∣tayned by the means of Constantine: so this rest and ease, accompanied with outward honour and acceptance with the greatest: instead of Godly simplicity brought in carnal pomp and wisdom of the flesh.

And the wisdom of the flesh, be∣ing once advanced, and grounded


in the hearts of men, banished pre sently all godly severity of life and zeal for the honour of Almighty God; And instead thereof brought in wil-worship, and profaneness. And did not carnal wisdom strike the chief stroke herein? Yea surely, the Church being now taken into the Court of the Emperor, and warming her self well by his fire: as she for∣gets her former affliction; so is she not unwilling to remit also of her sincere∣tio, as not being so suitable to the place and persons, that now she hath to deal withal: now she must a little become all unto all, that so she may either win others, or hold her own; somewhat must be yielded to her Patrons, to show her thank∣fullness: and some Corruption must be swallowed up, to maintain cre∣dite.
Now Christian liberty must be stray∣ned to be an occasion to the flesh, and Authority must be deified to maintain the same.

Thus the poor Church of Christ



being freed from the malice of heath∣nish Idolatry, is corrupted by prosperity, to set up spiritual Idolatry: Not on∣lie advancing her Patrons and Been∣factors above what was meet but advancing also her self by their help, above all that was called God, and so by degrees having well feathered her nest, and strengthened her self by the arm of flesh, over∣throws cunningly the same, even with it own weapons, and aduan∣ceth it self gloriously upon the rue∣ins and wreck thereof.
And thus the Church flies into the [256] wilderness upon Eagles wings, by the favour of earthly Princes, being first highly advanced, and so there∣by growing to looseness and profanenes; and so justly left to gross errors: both for the conceiving, as also for the in∣stifying thereof; whereby it comes to posse, that corrupters of doctrine in the end prevailing, sincerity is bani∣shed, and so Antichrist by degrees ex∣altered above all that is called God: not only in wilworship and bodily service, [257]


tyrannising over the consciences of the faithless and rebellious genera∣tion: but advancing himself by lying [258] signs and wonders thereby, to main∣taine the opinion of that arrogated truth, and so to subdue and hold in captivity the deceived world.
And so as profane pomp succeeded godly simplicity, so barbarous ignorance also came in place of pure and saving [259] knowledge, that not only the third part of the earth was killed therewith, but even the very Sea of Doctrine was so corrupted by that mountain of worldly pomp and glory cast into the same, that even the third part also of all things therein were utter∣lie destroyed: yea Heaven it self e∣uen [260] the church of God escaped not this infection, but that the Tail of the Dragon even drew down the Stars from Heaven, Revelation chapter 12. verse 1. Yea the Dragon himself set up his very throne of darkness [261] in the Temple of the Lord. That his darling the whore of Babylon might bee advanced thereupon, above


all that is called God: and did not Satan furnish his minion at all affaies, that so she might prosper and pre∣uaile over the children of unbelief? yea certainly, it was not enough for that man of sin, to strengthen himself from the usurped power of Heaven, chalenging the keys, to•∣pen and shut at his pleasure; but he must also wrest into himself all power on earth, disposing of Kingdoms, and de∣posing the mightiest at his pleasure.
And that he might appear to be [262] the true Antichrist, in all things op∣posing the kingdom of Iesus Christ. Behold, as all things under earth doe bow unto the Son of God, the very devils tremble, and are subject unto him: Even so doth this Abad∣don [263] assume the power of the Dra∣gon: and so by Conjuration and Enchantments, attains to and con∣firmeth his supreme authority.

And thus Witch-craft became an especial prop of Antichrists king∣dome.

And that in divers respects, ac∣cordingly



as that man of sin, by diverse means advanced and con∣firmed himself. And these were,
1 Opinion of divine power.
2 Presumption of perfect Holiness, and so of merits.
3 Maintenance of Idolatry, and
4 Outward greatness and sovereign∣tie.
To the furthering of al which this devilish Art stood him in great steed.

As, For the first, As Antichrist, intruded into the seat of the Lord, both fitting in the Temple of the Lord, and reigning in the consciences of men, and so exalting himself in voluntary worship above all that is called God: So was he much furthered heereun∣to, by this Art of Necromancy:

As both hereby through feigned miracles and lying wonders.

1 Gaining from the conceit of the deceived people, the Reputation of divine power.
2 And by the power of Satan, con∣founding his enemies, attaining to a cō∣ceit of supreme & immediate justice, As,


3 Hereby relieving extraordina∣rely his favourites; and so arrogating the conceit of divine mercy.
And thus also by this Art gained he an opinion of perfect Holiness:

As, not only hereby being able to blear the eyes of the world, not to discern, or not to dare to disco∣for his abominable wickedness.

But especially hereby being fur∣thered to perform many glorious out∣sides of well-doing, that he might be applauded as the mighty power of God. Acts 8. And so:

Withal, by this means, bewitch∣ing the hearts of the ignorant, to admire the beauty of the strumpet, and so to fall down and worship her. And,

By this Art, furthering also that Device of canonising of Saints for their perfect Holiness, by such forged miracles as hereby were made show of to that end:

Which as it was an especial ground and foundation of that Idolatry, which beginning of a reverend esti∣motion [264] and affection to holy men;



grew at the length, not only to a worship of their persons, being dead, but of their Statues and Images al∣so: which at the first, being one∣lie erected in memorial of their well-doings by a thankful world, grew at length to be adored and ex∣altered also above all that was called God: and that especially by means of this devilish Art.
For by this means these Stocks and Stones being made to speak and doe wonderful things, as it con∣founded the Image-makers, who by this practise condemned their Do∣ctrine [265] of Images: Teaching that they were but otdayned as means to re∣member [266] the people of those persons whom they did represent, and yet by this practise, making the people believe, that they were the Saints themselves: so were the ignorant and heartless people hereby gross∣lie [267] deceived and detained in this ido∣latrie, even by those lying wonders and signs that were wrought at these Images.



And thus as that man of sin, attai∣ned to exceeding credit and riches in the world: So that he might further exalt himself above all that is called God: behold, he advances himself above the great Kings and Potentates of the earth: and is furthered heereto especially by this Art of Conjure∣tion.
For hereby being acquainted with the secrets of all estates, gained he o∣portunitie to prevent, or confound their determinations.

By this means he many times casts bones among them, that tearing & devouring each other, they might both in the end, become his prey.

By this, was he able secretly to re∣move the greatest opposite, and yet by the secret conveyance thereof to keep the credit of his Holiness: yea to gain the opinion of divine po∣were and assistance.

By this means, whosoever ban∣ded openly against him, was like to take the foil. And thus, hereby nouzeling the world in ignorance


and infidelity, excluded them by this means the protection of the Lord: and so they became a prey unto Anti∣christ.
The bondage of Egypt must lie upon their necks, these cruel taske-maisters must increase their burdens & with∣draw their means: that so at length the oppressed world might groan to the Lord, who in his mercy, hath (in some measure) released the yoke of the oppressor, in restoring light unto the world, and authority to the ma∣gistrate.

And so now it is come to posse, that though in places of ignorance, witch∣craft abounds, because, as yet, the strong man keeps possession: yet, where the light of the Gospel hath once taken footing, as at the com∣ming of Christ the Oracles ceased, so [268] Satan falls down like lightning, at the preaching of the Gospel, and the gross∣ness of Witchcraft is well cleared, and banished, only because, though the Go∣spell be offred unto al, yet seeing al re∣ceiue not the knowledge of the truth:



Therefore it is just with God to give [269] up men to strong delusions, to believe lies: and so Satan becomes, not only a lie∣ing spirit in the mouth of the Pro∣phets, [270] to deceive unstable souls, but taking even seven spirits worse, as the [271] doctrine of the Gospel, decays in it purity, and so becomes a Broker to profanenesse: so together with cor∣ruption of Doctrine, Popish delusions crept in again, to beguile and en∣thrall unstable souls: And among these Delusions, Witch-craft not the least, hath again got some life and power, where the Gospel hath been revealed. And that,
1 By being defended and justified by godless men, as if there were no [272] such thing, that it is but a conceit.

2 Being detected, yet is it not pu∣nished thoroughly. The Blesser escapes, and the silly people that run to this white Devil, are let alone.

Which, as it may teach the wise [273] to see the plague, and hide himself, so it may resolve vs concerning the ply∣ces where Witches haunt usually.



either in places of ignorance, and there in more gross and sensible [274] manner, or else in Places of knowledge abused, where Hypocrisy and carnal wisdom, hath thrust out the power of sincerity: There Satan returns with seven worse spirits, Witch-craft is em∣braced and countenanced of men, So much the more dangerously, by how much now Witches are become great Professors, and followers of the Word, have attained some know∣ledge, and pretend great holiness, and honesty; whereby as it appears that Satan is now transformed into an Angel of light; so are wee infor∣med hereby the rather to arm our selves against such cunning and des∣pirate policies, which now especi∣ally are plotted to the ensnaring of our souls.


CHAP. XI.

Of the divers kinds of Witches, and their effects.


HItherto of the difference of Witches, in regard of their Training to, and interessing in their Trade.

Now let vs further consider of their several kinds and effects. How∣soever Satan doth especially by this Art of Witch-craft, reign in the i will∣drone of disobedience, and doth ge∣nerally aim at the destruction of the soul; yet as formerly he varied his polices, according to the seue∣rall Ages of the world, and diverse dispositions and affections of men, in the enticing of them to this Mystery; so doth he not want his dangerous snares to detain them in his o∣bedience, and that by limiting his power in such several manner un∣to each, that so they may con∣firm each other in their Trade, and by their mutual references to



each other, doe more mischief in the world.
And therefore as Fear and Love [275] are two special bonds to bind to o∣bedience, therefore hath the Divine Providence so disposed, that Satins power in some, shall bee restrained only to do hurt, that so such as will not Fear God, may by this means stand in awe of the devil, and of the Witch his servant, who are called Bad Witches.

And so contrariwise, there are others who by Divine Justice, are go∣uen up to Satins power with this li∣mitation only, to help and do good, [276] and these are called Good Witches, Blessers, Wise, and Cunning-women. And this Divine Dispensation is both Suitable to the parties who are lime∣ted thereby, and also very avail∣ble for the execution of the Divine Justice.

I say suitable it is to the several qua∣lites of the parties, thus diversely dispen∣sed, whereof some being vaine-glorious & drowned in Poperie are thereby carried,


with the applause of Good Works, and therefore are fitted by Satan there∣unto: Others are prone to malice cis∣content, covetousness, &c. and so are likewise fitted by the Devil, with power to bee avenged.
And doth not the just and holy [277] God, by this diversity and restraint of Satins power, accomplish most wise∣lie his just wrath upon the wicked?

Yea certainly, and that not one∣lie upon the vnbeleeuing world; but upon the very Witches themselves. As for the vnbeleeuing and wicked Generations they are hurt by the one, that they [278] may with the danger of their souls seek help of the other: And they have help by the one, that so, as a punishment of their infidelity they may bee given up again to bee hurt of the other. And so betwixt the Good Witch and the Bad, afflictions are increased, and yet repentance ex∣cluded, and so the measure of finn is [279] made up among the children of dis∣obedience, that so the measure of ven∣geance may accordingly be inflicted.

And doth not this also very wise∣lie, [280] further the damnation of the Witches themselves.
Yea certainly, the Bad Witch, by hurting, makes way for the good Wit∣ches help, and so thereby increases her sin; and the Good Witch in hell∣ping betrays the Bad Witch, and so, many times, brings her to the Gal∣lowes.

The Good Witch in helping makes more work for the Bad, who being suspected, revenges her self usually by doing more mischief, and so thereby ripens her sin to the Gal∣lowes, and so still makes more work for the Blesser to increase her condemn∣nation. The Bad Witch, because she doth hurt, is hated of the world, and so thereby increases her malice, and doth more harm. The good Witch is honoured, and reputed as a God, be∣cause she doth good, and so is harde∣ned in her sin and ripens the same, by adding to all former sins, final impenitency, and so usually commits the unpardonable sin.



Thus doth the providence of God appear in the divers dispensation of his judgements, by these instruments of his fierce wrath.
Who in these days are for the most part women. [281]

1 Both because these are com∣monly more ignorant, and therefore fitter to be ensnared.

2 And also usually more ambiti∣os and desirous of Sovereignty, the rather because they are bound to subjection.

3 And are also more obstinate where they take, and so fitter to stick to it.

4 And by reason of their sex and simplicity have more means to hide this sin, or else to escape punishment, as be∣ing more capable of compassion, in regard of necessary occasions of child-bearing, &c.


SECTIO. I.

Of the Bad Witch.


THus she is so called, because she hath only power from



Satan to doe hurt, and that by [282] special league and covenant with Sa∣tan.
And this is also called the binding Witch, in a blasphemous imitation of that Divine power of binding and afflicting which peculiarly be∣longs unto the glorious Lord: Ose. 6. 1.

Her power extends in show even as her Masters Satan doth, not one∣lie upon the dumb and senseless cry∣tures to breed terror and inconueni∣ence to man, but even upon man him∣self, Both upon his body to strike it with all kinds of diseases, yea with death it self, Iob. 1. 17.

As also upon the soul, to afflict with Madness, security, &c.

And yet her power is restrained only to doe hurt, and that in diverse respects, as you have partly heard: especially,

1 That hereby Satins power and government may bee more advanced in this diverse dispensation of his gifts.


2 That the Bad Witch may bee con∣founded in her power, seeing it is not paramount, she cannot help what is hurt.
3 That way hereby may be made for her detection by the Blesser.

4 That the Good Witch may by this means vent all his consening wails of spells, charms, &c. to help withal.


SECT. III.

Of an ordinary means whereby these Bad Witches seem to effect their ••s∣chiefs, namely, by cursing: where of Satins policy in colouring his as∣sistance hereby, and decay•…ing and hardening the Witch in her sin.


AS the Bad Witch hath power to hurt, so as it is observed, doth [283] she usually execute this power.

1 By horrible & fearful cursings and execrations of those Parties whom she maligns.

Invocating upon her bare knees (for so the manner is) the vengeance


of God upon them. And if she can conveniently to their faces, breathing out these fearful curses and direful execrations against them.
So (not to use further instance) is it confessed, that this condemned captive used ordinarily to curse her neighbours, and thereby (as she vaunted) to get the upper hand of them.

And this in an Apish and blasphe∣mous imitation of the Divine Justice, which by such manner of execrations is denounced against the wicked, Deuteron. 28. Leuiticus 26. Judges 5. Curse ye Morose, &c.

Now the Policy of Satan in pro∣uoking [284] to these execrations is mani∣fold. As not only,

1 Hereby to increase the Witches sin, by enraging her soul through these cursings to malice and re∣avenge.

But hereby also the Lord in his Justice Returns her cursings on her own pate, though she may hurt the bodies of others thereby, yet the chief



hurt shall rebound upon her own soul.
The wrath of God like a river of Brimstone inflaming those Execra∣tions which the accursed caitiff sen∣death up to Heaven, and so returning them back upon the Author there∣of: and is to seal up hereby unto her eternal vengeance, yet so, as that it is very fearfully cloaked even by these cursings.

For hereby Satan not only per∣swades the Witch, that whatsoever evil ensues, proceeds from the ver∣tu of that curse, and not from his se∣cret help.

But in that the name of God is in∣uocated to take vengeance on these parties, thereby also the power of Satan is further concealed: as if now the Lord did answer the desires of these Monsters.

And so, in that he doth answer them, therefore they are in great request with him: yea in that things succeed according to their cursings, hereby is arrogated the power of al∣mighty



God, and so the Witch puf∣fed up with conceit of divine ado∣rite.

SECTIO IV.

Of Good Witches or Blessers, as wee term them: Here first of their Nature and Condition.


AS the Bad Witch hath only power to hurt: So the Good [285] Witch or Blesser hath only faculty to doe good: to help, &c. And that also by consent, in a league with the devil: And is therefore blasphemou∣sly termed The Unbinding Witch, as being able to undo• what the other hath done.

And this Satan disposes in note∣ble [286] Policy, not only that some or∣der may appear in his kingdom of Darkness, whereupon it may the rather be obeyed; but especially,

advancing hereby his imaginary po∣were in the hearts of his Proselites, that he is as God, able to doe all things, to hurt, and help, &c. and thereby se∣cretly to delude his Scholars, that if they can unbind others, why may they not undo their own bonds: what reckoning to be made of any Covenant with Satan, seeing he will thus bee content to have his works dissolved, &c.
And this the rather, because he so divides his gifts, as may be thought; not to one all, but to each several: whereby he 1 both blasphemously i∣mitates the divine providence; 2 ties the Witches more obsequiously unto him, 3 makes show of absolute li∣bertie in his dispensation, 4 and hereby fits his instruments to doe more mischief, 5 and yet secureth them in their damnable estate: as being by this means more service∣able to each other.





SECTIO IIII.

 That their skill in helping to things that are stolen, and healing dis∣eases, is not a gift of GOD: whereupon they are accounted Good, but rather they doe it cer∣tainely by the help of Satan.


THat it is not of God, appears, 1 By the Quality of their per∣sons, [287] because they are generally, eg∣norant, profane, abominable, and therefore the Lord will not reveal such secrets unto them, Psalm 25. But unto them that fear him.

2 By the Consideration of the time, wherein these Revelations are pre∣tended: which being the time of the Gospel established, when an ordina∣rye means of revealing Gods will is on foot; therefore now wee ha∣uing the Word, as we may not ex∣pect such Revelations, so they are not granted to vs, from the Lord our God.



Especially, if we consider the mat∣la pretēded to be revealed, which is not [288] any necessary thing, concerning Sal∣uation, but only some particular accidental matter, concerning the present estate of this life, for which we find not that there were any Re∣uelations from the Lord, but only [289] concerning the general state of King∣domes, and as it concerned the Spy∣ritual good of the Church.
Besides, if we consider the manner [290] of the Revelation, which is neither by Gods spirit immediately, nor by an An∣gell from heaven, nor by the soul of some man, that is formerly dead, and that in some Dream or Vision, for such were the Revelations from the Lord; but by seeing in the picture of men in a Glass, &c. which may easi∣lie, and must necessarily be done by Satan, as both provoking the thief to steal, and being able to repre∣sent his Image in the Glass as person∣nating him before the Glass, and so the Reflection must needs return the like resemblance.


And this must necessarily follow, [291] if we consider the end of this Revelation; which is, to have goods restored; which being utterly unlawful, because we should rest contented with this loss, as a chastisement for sin, and so rather go to God, to enquire the cause of the loss, and to have sin pardoned, then to run to the wise woman to have the loss restored.
So that the thing being unlawful, it is just with GOD, to leave vs to seek unlawful means, that so one sin may be the punishment of another.

Lastly, seeing whatsoever help is [292] lawfully to be used in any extremity is plainly commended to vs in the word: Therefore, seeing the word doth di∣rectly condemn all these indirect and devilish helps, and comman∣death 1 to seek help principally ftom the Prophets of the Lord, and 2 so to use means of Physic, as [293] the diseases require. Therefore it plainly folows, that seeing these bless∣sers are neither acquainted with Gods


word, nor skilful in Physic; the help that they minister must needs come from Satan, whose Creatures, and vassals they now are, who colours his devilish help, both with some formal prayers, and other medicines, that so he may more dangerously be guile unstable souls.
This shall appear yet more clear∣lie unto vs, if we consider further.

That although these Wizards pre∣tend [294] to help by holy means, yet, were there no other evidence to [295] prove their assistance from Satan, this one were sufficient, That these Blessers are not only strangely tormen∣ted, while they are performing this cure, but are even afflicted with the same diseases, which for the present, they seek to remove from others.

Now, that this is the work of Sa∣than, is manifest.

1 Because the old Sybills and o∣there Witches were usually so tormen∣ted, when they gave their Oracles, who are generally concluded to bee Sedans prophets.

2 This their strange tormenting, in this pretended good act, argues that it is not of God, who would not so requite his servants, whom he sets on work, especially doing his will, But rather of Satan, who by these torments convinces them of the evil of their work, and confoun∣death hereby the vnbeleeuing world, that will seek to such for help: Es∣pecially, if we consider further
That whereas there is a reciprocal covenant between Satan and the Blesser, as hath been declared, that as the Devil must doe what the Witch would have him, so the Witch must endure what Satan will impose. If now it false out, that the Disease [296] which the Witch would have remo∣ued from another, shall be transpor∣ted upon her self, as a pledge of fur∣there torments, to confound her in her present power, and yet to deceive her withal, as if by this strange altar∣tion and torment she deserved to obtain this pre-eminence, as to help others, she hath bought it



dearly: And so yet further to deceive, as if because she hath her pain here, [297] therefore she shall avoid further rec∣koning: Is not the justice of God admirable here? Is not his wisdom wonderful to take the wise in their own craftiness?

SECTIO. V.

 Of the Covenant whereby these Bless∣sers bind themselves to doe good, namely, the Belief of men, whether they can benefit any that doe not believe in them: and why they are beneficial to such: And so conse∣quently of the danger of these Good Witches, and that they are far more dangerous then the Bad.


AS Satan binds his servants un∣to his obeisance by a special contract and covenant (as hath been [298] showed thoroughly before) so the good Witch, being lessoned by her ac∣cursed Master, doth hereby endeavour to perform truest service unto him, even by hunting after and ensnaring



the precious souls of men: And to this purpose she hath no more dangerous snare then this condition of Faith, that those who will have help or succour at her hands, must believe she can doe them good.
For whereas Faith is the only Bond whereby God is knit unto man, and man unto God: If therefore Satan can but once break this bond; as he doth hereby:

First, exclude vs the especial pro∣uidence of the Almighty.

Secondly, so doth he make way hereby, for the full possessing, and prevailing over vs.

Thirdly, and hence it is that there must bee no help without this Be∣leefe in the Witches ability here∣unto: That so the Blesser also being puffed up with a conceit of some Divine Power, might so there∣in, not only Intrude into the Office of the Messiah, and thereby to deprive her self utterly of the benefit of his sacrifice; but also



even make a mock of the Son of God by translating that precious gift of Faith, which only entends salua∣tion, [299] to the attaining of every base and unfit trifle, and horrible wic∣kednesse, yea offering up hereby the deceived soul, as a Sacrifice unto Satan, which cost the precious blood of the Son of God.
Fourthly, especially, herein doth appear the desperate pride and ma∣lice of Satan against Iesus Christ and his members.

1 As advancing himself hereby in Christs steed, in the deceived hearts of the unbelievers.

2 And robbing him, not only of that proper homage which is due from the creature, namely, to depend on it Saviour:

3 But also of the souls of those that are thus ensnared.

4 As detaining them thereby in Atheism and contempt of Gods Or∣dinances for salvation.

5 And emboldening them to all des∣pirate and outrageous courses upon



presumption of help from these in∣carnate devils.
6 And so ripening thereby unto e∣ternall vengeance. And this the ra∣there, because by this condition of Faith thus required for help;

7 It is thereby the rather warren∣ted to come from God.

8 And so both the Witches ado∣rity and power justified to this end, as Divine, even a special Gift of God to such purposes.

9 As also the peoples seeking to such means is coloured.

10 And so, in that help hereby is procured for many wicked ends, therefore fearful and blaspemous conceits are hereby nourished in the minds of unbelievers, concer∣ning [300] the Divine Nature; As if the Lord should approve of sin, that he [301] furthers, and gives success thereto. And when this gap is once opened, how is sin committed with gre∣dines? How is the deceived soul drunkē in security? How by this secu∣rity prepared to sudden destructiō?


And therefore though it were e∣nough for Satan to doe good at the command of the Blesser, to hold her surer unto him by these devotions: Yet seeing he is a roaring Lyon, go∣ing about seeking whom he may devour; doth he also yet both further hereby the damnation of the Sorceress, in making her an instru∣meant (by this condition of Faith) to en∣snare the souls of men, and so by the same means, increases his prey, in deceiving such unstable souls who depend upon such dangerous help.
And therefore though no doubt, by Divine permission, he could help one with the Good Witches warrant (this being but his colour to deceiuè her and others) and so much more (if she employed him) without the Faith of the parties, and happily doth tender some trifling help without this Covenant (to believe) to toll the simple on, to seek further to him: Yet seeing he specially in all these, aims at the souls de∣struction,


and as the Divine execute∣oner to prevail in the children of disobedience: Therefore seeing the World generally will not receive the knowledge of the truth, shall it not bee given up to believe lies? 2. Thessalonians 2. 11. 12. Even to seek unto Satan, forsaking God, &c. so to buy his help with the danger of their souls: In hunting after which, this adversary is now grown so cunning, as that howsoever here∣tofore in Times of Ignorance, he used more carnal and palpable means for the ensnaring of them; Yet since the Gospel of Iesus Christ hath been advanced, and the knowledge thereof hath in some good measure banished gross ignorance in many places, there∣fore doth Satan suite himself accor∣dingly: And so, though he re∣quire real covenants of some, in [302] some cases, yet is he contented also with Mental Covenants, as being able to guess at the mind by some outward inclinations

and distempers, and so doth more cunningly and dangerously deceive even the Professors of this Age, whom seeing they profess to believe in Christ, therefore will he not require an open covenant to believe in him: As contenting himself:
1 That they allow help to bee sought from such means.
2 That in case of necessity they will not stick to seek themselves.
3 That they do not as well further the Blesser, as the Bad Witch to pu∣nishment, [303] &c.
All which, and such like, he takes as arguments of their secret confidence in him, as approving his power, and iustifying the lawfulness of such means.


SECTIO. VII.

Whether the good Witch can hurt, and the hurting Witch help.


BY that which hath been said before concerning the limitation of the power of these Witches, it may



seem to be concluded, that the Good Witch can only help, and the Bad Witch only can hurt.
But yet Experience seems to prove the contrary, not only in Hartley, that famous Conjurer of Lan∣cashier, which bewitched Mr. Stark of Clee-worthes Children, who was al∣so a great Blesser, &c. And so in divers others: But especially in the Witch that was the principal occasion of this Treatise.

For it appears by her examine∣tions, that she both used to fore∣speak (as they call it) that is to hurt, and weary things, as also to bless the same again, and so to help as well as to hurt: As appears by the Charm hereafter set down to this end.

To which wee answer.

That though happily by Covenant Satan binds himself no further but to the Blesser to help, and to the Bad Witch to hurt, because

Either they desire no further, or



else this limitation may serve for such end as heretofore.
Yet herein also doth Satins cun∣ning appear notably, that if upon such composition only to hurt or help, he yet prove better then his bargain, [304] as to assist such to help who have done hurt, &c, By this means, he binds his servants more obsequiously unto him; and yet deceives them more grossly.

As giving them occasion now to conceive, That seeing he couenan∣ted with them only to hurt or helps If now it shall appear that the Bad Witch can also help,

Is not this a notable delusion to flatter her, that she hath some ex∣traordinarie power above what Satan can confer unto her, and so that the League between them is disanulled and broken: She is now free (as she thinks) and rather by some Divine Assistance can undo and help what is fore-spoken, as they use to speak?

And seeing Satan in all these Co∣uenants


with the Witch, is no Free [305] Agent, but the Lords Executioner to run and stay at his pleasure: As the Lord therefore hath special ends in the disposing of this Covenant to hurt or help; so may he not have special purpose in this, exceeding therein, that the same that hurts may also help, and the same that helps may also hurt?
Yea certainly: The Lords purpose in permitting and wisely ordering these Compacts between Satan and the Witch to hurt or help; using the Devil herein as the instrument of his Divine Justice upon the children of disobedience, hath been in some poor measure manifested hereto∣fore: And hereby

Doth He wisely and gloriously [306] make manifest, that Satan is but his Vassal, that all Covenants between the Witch and him, for only hurting and helping, are subordinate to his power, alterable at his pleasure, that though Satan agree with the one Witch to help, and with the other



only to hurt, yet shall the hurting. Witch also help, and the helping Witch hurt, that it may appear also that these Covenants are but Juggling Tricks between Satan and the Witch, to draw fools to the stocks, and so on either side to beguile more fearfully: That seeing the Blesser pretends to help: as she doth hereby draw more Proselites after her, for good, so shall she have power to hurt them, both to keep them the more in awe, and so to seek unto her more slavishly, and depend the more con∣stantly [307] on her power; as also when their sin is hereby ripened, to confound them more fearfully, and so to execute the wrath of God up∣on them.
And the Bad Witch also, though the Covenant bee, That she must only hurt, that so she may exe∣cute her malice upon the bodies of unbelievers, and so send them to the Blesser for the further destru∣ction of their souls: yet to spare



this labour: and make the delusion more effectual to deceive, may not the GOD of Wisdom deuolue both these Faculties of hurting and helping to one person: May he not hereby give way to Satan to ad∣uaunce himself fully in the hearts of the children of disobedience: as God of this world, to save and destroy at his pleasure?
And as the Lord in restraining Satan to hurt or help in those di∣uerse Instruments, would give an understanding heart to consider the limited power of Satan, and so to de∣pend upon an higher Power of the Divine Majesty: so seeing the na∣turall and desperate sinner, as he is fast bound to the power of Sa∣than, even so willingly would he serve none other master: there∣fore, that he may serve him the more cheerfully, it is the Justice of GOD, so to give up to Sedans delusions, as that he shall think he needs serve no other master.

And hence it proceeds, that the



miserable soul affecting a sufficien∣cie in that God whom it subjects it self unto, able to steed at all affaies; Therefore, seeing Satan by these Witches labours to erect his Throne in the hearts of the disobedient: It stands with great policy, that this power of hurting and helping shall ap∣pear in one and the same, both to resemble an Unity in this Feigned Deity, As also to confirm the con∣ceited Omnipotence, and sufficiency thereof.
And seeing wee are fallen into [308] these evil days, wherein iniquity a∣bounds, and ripens to the Harvest, 2. Tim. 3. 2, 3.

Doth not therefore the admirable Wisdom and Justice of God herein gloriously shine; that whereas usual∣lie the Good Witch hath escaped and been advanced of man, and there∣fore puffed up with pride, and so pro∣uoked to doe mischief; it now plea∣seth the Lord to give her her desire, that she which helps may also hurt? thereby,





1 To flatter her with a conceit of her Sovereign Power.
2 To nurse her hereby in despe∣rate security.

3 So by this means to ripen her sin, and so to take her napping in her own counsels.

4 Exposing her to the Sword of the [309] Magistrate, as having done such mis∣chiefs, and so confounding not one∣lie her own confidence, but the re∣pose of the world in her, who e∣steams her the only Goddess, seeks to her for help, &c. Shall not this lesson the vnbeleeuing Generation not to tamper with her, least though they regard not their souls, in seeking help from her, yet they may secure their lives and estates in not meddling with her?

Oh that wee could observe the ways of God herein! May wee not hence learn wonderful things? Shall not all Idolatry come to the block? Shall not Anti-christ that great Coniu∣rer, likewise be confounded? And shall not his open and desperate practises of [310]



murdering Princes, and bringing de∣solation in the world, justified and taught, now hasten him to his con∣fusion, who heretofore hath been esteemed the common Papa, the father and giver of life, and salvation to the sons of men?

SECT. VIII.
BY this which hath been said, it appears now plainly: [311]

That the Blesser or good Witch (as [312] we term her) is far more dange∣rous then the Bad or hurting Witch: And,

1 That because first she is less suspected and feared then the other, and therefore is like to do more mis∣chief.

2 Nay she is magnified and adored among men as a Demi Goddess, &c. and so causes men to commit Idol∣try to her by putting confidence in her.

3 She yields help for the satis∣fying



of the flesh, and so hardness in sin procures hope of longer life, ex∣cludeth Repentance, withdraws from the love of the Word, and lawful means, nourishes in ignorance, pro∣phanenesse, &c.
4 The bad Witch usually is ha∣led to punishment, and so is prevented of much evil doing, and happily by this means brought to repentance: But the Blesser is spared, and so per∣meted to doe more mischief, under pretence of well-doing, and there∣by ripens her self more fearfully to vengeance.

5 She yields help at a very de∣sperate rate; namely, the ending∣ring of the soul: and, What will it profit a man to win the whole world, and loose the same? Math. 16. 26,

And so also is her estate most dan∣gerous and fearful in regard of her∣self, as by requiring this condition of faith, even despiting the spirit of grace, & making a mock of the Son of God: & so usually committing that vnpar∣donable sin, Hebr. 6. 4. 10. 16. 17.



And therefore this serves:
1 For the reproof of the Times wherein these Darlings of Satan are so embraced and adored.

2 It is an Instruction to the Magi∣strate, to bend the edge of his sword against these most dangerous Instru∣mints: and to give way unto the Gospel, to cut them down.

3 It is a Caveat to the people, to take heed of these snares, to seek after knowledge, and submit to ho∣lie means, that so the Lord may have mercy on their souls, that be∣ing within his protection, they may bee better secured concerning their bodies.

    The end of the first Book.


THE MYSTERY OF WITCH-CRAFT: The second Book.

Describing,

1 The Power and Effects thereof.
2 The Detection of Witches, with the means thereto.
3 The remedies against Witchcraft.
4 The Punishment of Witches, with the nature and lawfulness thereof.
[Figure: ]
AT LONDON Printed by Nicholas Oaks.

1617.




THE MYSTERY OF WITC. H-CRAFT. The second Book.

CHAP. I.

Of the Power of Witches, what they are able to doe, and of Satins cun∣ning sleights and stratagems here∣in.


THe maine thing where∣by Satan fetches o∣for [313] these monsters, and holds them in his o∣beisance: is that great power which he deuolueth unto thē. Whereby being able, in show, to do



what they list, they are so transpor∣ted with Pride, and wholly blinded therewith, that either they are here∣by secured in their estates, seeing they can do such Feats, or else care∣less altogether thereof, for the in∣tending and prosecuting of wonder∣full things.
It shall not therefore be amiss in the next place, having proved

1 That there are Witches.
2 How they attain to this high mystery; and,
3 What several kinds there are of them.
To add now somewhat concer∣ning this their extraordinary power.

That so we may be rightly infor∣med how far they are able to pre∣uaile: and withal, may discern how notably they are abused by Satan ma∣king them believe that their power is far greater then indeed it is.

To this purpose consider we these two things.

First, wherein this power of Witches is restrained: and,

Secondly, wherein it is enlarged, and particularly advances it self.
Concerning the first.


SECTIO I.

That the Witches Power is less then it seems, as appears;


FIrst, because she is restrained by [314] the Lord, that she can not hurt when she would.

As, not the children of God always whom she maliceth.

Neither these so far as she would: as not at all to hurt their souls fi∣nally:

No not usually to take away life.

Nor upon each occasion, as she is provoked: The Lord restraining her in love unto his Children, and for the glory of his great name: De∣fending his Servants by the atten∣dance of his holy Angels, Psalm 91. That the evil one shall not doe them any violence.



Neither wicked men, so far as she [315] would, and intends.
As, not all, at all times, whom she maliceth: The Lord in his Justice brideling her, 1 for the further con∣fusion of the Witch: 2 for the advance∣meant of his patience to the wicked: 3 for the fatting of them up hereby to the day of slaughter, and to harden them in their Atheism, that there are no Witches, no Devils, no Hell, no Heaven, but what is in this life.

Neither to take life from those whom she afflicts, at all times: that so they may still enjoy greater Patience, and thereby, either bee brought to repentance, by the distem∣per of the chastisement, or be made inexcusable.

And this, so is disposed:

1 Both for the increase of her ma∣lice, and so ripening of her sin, be∣ing disappointed, and restrained, it raging more within, the more it is outwardly curbed, and so fretting against God, when she cannot have her will of men: yea raging, and ma∣ny

times tearing her self, when she is bridled from hurting others.
2 As also for the confusion of her skill and conceited kingdom, as being now enthralled, and justly bridled, that so horror of conscience hereby increasing, she may have her condē∣nation sealed up, and hereby be pro∣uoked to renew her covenant with Satan to obtain a greater measure of power, to make him more serviceable to his.

3 And the Lord hath an especial aim herein, for the more orderly and comely government of the world; which is thus graciously preserved and ad∣uaunced: whereas, if Witches might have their wills to hurt whom and how far they list: neither good Magi∣strate nor Minister should stand, none should be mightier then they to con∣troule them, none holier to confound thē: their rage, envy, & covetousness would make confusion & desolation every where, and so the providence of God would be hardened, and the works of his government hindered and disgraced in the world.




SECTIO. II.

Her Power is less then it seems.


1 Because Satan doth many things by divine dispēsatiō immediately, which [316] yet notwithstanding he fathers on the Witch: and seems to doe at her sending, which yet he doth by his skill, in Natural Temperatures of the bodies of Creatures, and their diseased estates; And so being able [317] to guess at the times, when they will come to their Crisis, and are like to speed: then speeds he to the witch, prouoks her to malice the parties, & so offers to be sent to execute that ma∣lice, which falling out at the time when the Witch sends, she there∣upon conceives, that she is the Au∣thour of the hurt. She confesses it a often on the gallows; whereas all this is but Sedans immediate work: and yet she justly punished, for dealing [318] with Satan, who thus deceives.

1 To hasten her to judgment.

2 To satisfy the rage of the world a∣against her, & thereby either to make them guilty of shedding innocent blood, and so to increase their sin.
3 To obtain his prey of her soul more speedily.

4 And so to seek a new master, or dame, to increase his kingdom.

5 But his especial policy herein is: by fathering it on the Witch, to make work for the good Witch. Now they must run to her; help must be had, and what more ready then the cun∣ning woman, especially seeing she doth it with so little cost? and doth it with so good prayers, at the least, procures ease, which Nature is satisfied with, though it is bought at a dear rate, e∣uen with horrible and blasphemous abuses of Gods name, cursed confi∣dence in Satan, &c.

6 And seeing we are many times conceited & suspicious of our neighbours, ready to judge uncharitably & rash∣lie [319] of them: doth not Satan further the conceit by deluding the Witch, as to think that Satan did such things



at her sending, which also Satan in his policy must have published, to con∣firm [320] vs in our uncharitable and crew∣ell conceit, and so thereby provoke vs further to shed innocent blood.
Secondly, Satan doth also many things by deluding her senses: making her to believe that which is not, and so deceives her in the conceit of her power: As that she is transformed into a Cat and Hare, and so can enter into places the doors being fast, which is contrary to a natural body, &c.

For though Peter came out of prison [321] and the doors all locked, yet was this done; First, by the mighty power of God: Secondly, nothing was done, but what might stand with the conditi∣on of a natural body. The doors by the power of God were opened, and so gave place to the body. The by∣die was not contracted and exininated to pierce the same: neither could the quality of the body endure the pain, neither the quantity be despoiled of it dimensions.

As for that Dream of the spirits

transporting the body lying dead in the [322] bed, and returning to it again afterword. This being contrary to the divine de∣cry, That the soul being separated from the body, should return to it again, till the Resurrection: it must needs be a delusion and forgery of Sa∣than.
Thirdly, the Witches power is re∣strained [323] by Composition and Covenant with the Devil, as the Good Witch must only help, and the Bad Witch she must only hurt: the one must be accounted the binding Witch, that o∣there the unbinding: The Policy of Sa∣than herein hath been partly disco∣uered before. As also the justice of God in confounding this covenant, and en∣larging this power is laid down hereafter.

Fourthly, the power at least of the good Witch, is restrained to the faith [324] of the party whom she intends to help: Either he must believe, she can help him, or else, he shall receive no good from her; Of the reason and use hereof elsewhere.
Fiftly, the power of all Witches is [325] restrained by the authority of the Ma∣gistrate. For though, if a private per∣son detain them, they may either hurt or escape, yet if once the magistrate hath arrested them, Satins power cea∣seth, in being not now able to hinder and defraud the Justice of the Al∣mighty: And lastly, it is also restrai∣ned to the good of the Church. To this end examine we

SECTIO III.

Whether seeing Satan hath power from [326] God, to afflict mā, that he doth the ra∣there more hurt, by the means of witches


NO question, seeing wee are apt to distrust God, and depend upon those, and to forsake Gods word; there∣fore it is just with God, to give vs up to be deceived by them: so that, it is not for the Witches sake, but for the wickedness of man, that Satins power is enlarged: both for the Witches fur∣there condemnation, whose sin is hereby increased,

And also, for the punishment of mans [327] horrible and strange sins: by those strange and fearful plagues, especi∣ally to condemn the infidelity of men, in fearing or seeking to these.
Only herein observe the policy of Sa∣than, who though he have power [328] from God, yet he will not execute it, but as sent from the Witch, or at least, seeming so; that so he may both di∣uert the mind of man from God, and so nourish him in ignorance and A∣theisme, as fearing and respecting the Witch more then God;

As also, that he may carry the mind from home, from the consider∣tion of our own vileness, and wic∣kednesse, to look abroad to the Witch, to observe her malice, and so to increase our rage against her, and thereby increase our sin, and yield her more power over vs; and there∣by still to send the mind from God, and his true means of help, to the cunning woman, &c.


SECTIO IIII.

Whether Witches may have power o∣for Gods children. [329]


NO doubt they may have it, so far as to afflict the body, because these outward crosses are common to all, Eccles. 9. 1.

And we are subject to Infidelity, [330] and so to Sedans power.

Yea wee are ignorant who are Wit∣ches, and so many times are chasti∣zed for our foolish charity in rely∣uing them.

3 Yea, wee may rashly condemn and censure them: and therefore bee liable to the hand of Almighty God [331] by them.

1 And so by sympathy with the by∣die, the soul may be afflicted: yea Satan 2 may further afflict the soul, by reason that it cannot brooke so well the bodily misery, by working upon the impatience thereof, and so

forcing it to murmuring; yea to a kind of despair: the rather, because the children of God, through igno∣rance or extremity of pains, may by themselves, or others use such vnlaw∣full means, or though they use Phi∣sick, and some such subordinate law∣full helps; yet the principal is negle∣cted, Repentance for sin, and Prayer unto God.
And seeing all things are alike to all [332] men; may not Satan work so upon the mind, as by such or the like dis∣position to bring it to many, and such like raging fits, either tam∣pering with the complexion, as me∣lancholie, &c. or furthering those pas∣sions of discontent and despair, by leading them heereto.

And the Providence of God in using [333] Satan as an instrument, to inflict by Witch-craft, these chaste cements upon his children, is manifold.

As first, to humble his children: that they shall not escape this scourge, as well as others: so I remember the Lady Hales complained; What could

I have no other affliction but this, I could have endured any, so it had not been by this, &c.
2 To comfort his servants, that seeing they shall in this greatest af∣fliction have a comfortable issue to conquer Satan, therefore hereupon they may build the certainty of their salvation: As also,

3 To instruct them, that seeing Sa∣tan may have power to take away life, and yet not to hurt the soul fi∣nally, therefore here is the trial of their Faith, though the Lord should kill them yet to trust in him; here the [334] trial of their obedience, to yield up life into Gods hands; here also their Wisdom tried, not to measure Gods [335] favour by outward things, not to set by this life, which Satan may pre∣uaile against.

And hath not the Lord in this af∣fliction of his Saints, some further use for the stumbling block of an vnbelee∣uing [336] Generation?

Yea surely, and that many ways:

1 Both to flatter them, that their


estate is good, seeing the godly fare as [337] bad as they do.
2 And also to stagger them, that their estate is evil; seeing, if Gods children are thus afflicted, for al their knowledge, and holiness in this life, what shall become of them, that have no knowledge, hate holiness, &c.

3 And herein yet most dange∣rously to stumble them, that seeing the knowledge and holiness of the Saints cannot free them from the power of Satan, therefore away with know∣ledge, wel-fare ignorance; what boots [338] it to bee precise? Let vs live as wee list.

Nay seeing these means, cannot preserve, Why may we not seek to other? and so a gap is open to all unlawful means.

Especially, if wee observe Satins policy herein, who usually being sent to afflict some holy one, [339] returns as confounded, he can∣not doe it, because they have Faith, thereby intending, that none that have Faith, are subject to his

power: and so puffing up even the best with security, and thereby pre∣paring them through vain confi∣dence to his malice: So persuading the world, that he can touch any that hath not faith, and so still robbing God of his glory; as if the let were not in his free providence, but in the goodness of man: As if the Lord did not freely execute his providence, but was bounded therein by some∣what in man. And then he must be sent to the child of the faithful father, and prevail there, as if the Faith of the Parents did not hold Gods protection over their tender Infants, as well as over themselves: or the Child, because he hath power over him, is excluded Gods protection, hath not Faith, is not of the faithful seed.
And if now at the length it shall appear, that Satan, though he have returned as disappointed by the Faith of the Saints, yet shall pre∣uaile over any, to afflict and tor∣meant them: Behold then the dan∣gerous delusions: Either this mat∣la

of Faith is but a mockery, seeing it cannot resist Satan: why should it not repell him on the one side, as well as on the other, If there were any such thing, or it had any such power?
Or else, the Saints may loose their Faith: and so, if Satan prevail a∣against life, he must then also prevail against Faith, for the utter abolishing of the power thereof.

And what difference then between the wicked and godly?

Thus may the Saints be subject to this affliction: and thus may the world stum∣ble thereat.


SECTIO V.

And yet in all these afflictions much differ from the wicked. [340]


1 AS both in the cause of the affli∣ction.
2 In the measure of it.
3 In the issue thereof,


For the cause, If the Lord afflict his children with this scourge, nei∣there is it in anger, or simply as a pu∣nishment [341] of sin, though the Lord may intend the chastisement of the sinner [342] hereby: But especially, 1. To Try their faith: 2. To provoke to repentance 3. And so to take them hereby out of this miserable world.
But in the wicked it is otherwise: The Lord is angry when he leaves them to Satan, he entends the discovery of their Infidelity, and unmasking of their hypocrisy: By this sharpe afflict∣on he awakens hereby their drowsy conscience, and so in the horror there∣of, seals up unto them eternal ven∣geance, and leaving them to be rely∣ued by carnal means, subjects them thereby more surely to the power of Satan, by whom, making up, in this [343] renewing of their days, the measure of their sin, they are ripened and hastened to the day of vengeance. [344]

Thus they differ in the cause.

2 As for the measure, the afflict∣on either reaches only to touch



the body, or else if the soul bear a part, still the hand of the Lord is put under, Psal. 37. 24. comforts are sup∣plied according to the affliction: or the sharper affliction, prepares to more sound and heavenly console∣tion.
But for the wicked it is not so with them: The soul is especially aimed at by the malice of Satan, and there∣fore, either the body is so smitten to drive the soul to despair, or else by sending it to unlawful means, the soul is more fearfully ensnared by confidence in Satan, and so hastened to it just & unavoidable confusion: And thus they differ in regard of the mea∣sure.

3 For the Issue, The Saints, If they [345] escape out this affliction, 1 are more experienced in Satins subtlety, 2 more enabled to comfort, and relieve others, 3 more purged of carnal confidence, 4 more humbled and cast upon the mighty power of God, 5 more quickened in Faith, 6 more weaned from the love of


the world, 7 more wary to keep themselves within Gods protection, more patient under the cross, 8 more prepared to death, 9 more ready for the Lord. And therefore,
If they are translated hereby, they make an happy exchange of sin; for perfect holiness, of misery for eternity, of transitory for eternal happiness, of deceitful friends for the fellowship and eternal commu∣neon of the thrice blessed God, that in∣numerable company of heavenly spirits and souls of the righteous; the uncle∣parable union with Iesus Christ their Saviour.

But for the wicked; if they escape, that which they seemed to have, is taken away; they grow worse and worse, filled with all unrighteousness, seven worse spirits seizing upon them. And if they are taken away, then is the end of all their vain happiness, and a full pouring out of Gods wrath upon them.


SECTIO VI.
THus we have heard wherein and by [346] what means the Witches power is restrained.

Now let vs consider on the other side wherein it appears.

This may be discerned.

1. If we consider the Actions pro∣per to their own persons.
2. As also in their Actions towards others.
Concerning their own persons.

First, it cannot be denied, but that more speedily, then may stand with [347] the ordinary course of nature, they may assemble themselves to their meetings, or trudge to do any mis∣chief; as being carried by Satins po∣were above the earth, or sea, speedily, for some short space, not being seen [348] of any: which is not hard for Satan to do, by thickening the Ayre under and about them.

As for any further means, whereby they may transport themselves in the likeness of an Hare, &c. this we have



showed before to be but a mere de∣lusion, notwithstanding any tokens they bring for the proof thereof.
But that they may abuse the bodies [349] of such, whom they malice to ride up∣on them, in the night: this howsoe∣for it bee not impossible, yet I take it, it may rather prove a delusion of the parties sense that is thus proton∣ded to be abused, then any such re∣all taking up of his body out of bed, and laying him there again, because this may bee done with less ado, and yet deceive more effectually.

Thus of the actions of the Witches to∣wards themselves.

Touching his Actions towards others.

Here consider we these things. [350]

1 Their manner of consulting thereon, which is usually in the Church, where they meet, to worship their master:

Here,

1 the Devil inquires what each would have done.
2 They return their particular occasions and businesses.
3 Their demand by Satan is granted, and means propounded


and tendered to the execution thereof.
As giving them powders and poisons, cōposed by his skill, in the secrets of Nature to take away life, to inflict diseases, & cure the same; and especi∣ally, [351] to cloak his damnable convey∣ance herewith. Teaching them to make Pictures in Wax or Clay; that by the rosting thereof, the persons where∣of they bear the name, may conti∣nually melt & dry away by sickness: And this, in a blasphemous imitation of the divine power (who used such means to accomplish his miracles,) the bet∣la to colour his devilish coueiances, which usually are these.

1 To make men and women love and hate one another: a matter possible for him to doe, by persuading the cor∣rupt affections.

2 To lay the sickness of one upon an t•er, as upon Iob, yea to take away life, [352] &c. by such Pictures, though they are no cause thereof. It being easy for Satan, being a spirit, to weaken and scatter the spirits of life, where∣by through faintness the party shall [353]


sweat out natural moisture. And so also by weakening the spirits, the stomach shall be weakened: where∣by not being able to breed new now∣rishment, the old must needs in short time be spent.
3 He can raise tempests, as hath been proved before: and,

4 So to breed madness, and,

5 To haunt men and places with spirits, and so by a kind of obsession to vex and torment them.

6 Yea, he can hinder the opera∣tions of nature, and so may be a means to hinder copulation, and so procre∣ation, and that not only in general: 1 As corrupting natural heate, that the generating member may not exe∣cute accordingly.

2 That though it should pierce into the womb, yet the seed being cold, may take no effect.

Or else, he may steal away the seed, that it shall not posse into the womb.

But particularly also, though the party may have ability to others, yet to serve one, for the like reasons, he

may be impotent, not able to per∣form the work of Generation, and [354] so deny that duty of marriage, and so happily produce a nullity thereof; unless by Physic, or some spiritual means his power may be overruled, for which some time is to be gran∣ted, and means used.
7 Lastly, it cannot be denied, [355] howsoever the world wold obscure the work of God herein: that even by the means of witch-craft, Satan may be sent even into bodies of men, re∣ally to possess them. As of old it was usual in the Primitiue Church, and the like punishment continuing for sin, the like means remaining to remove the scourge. I see not but now it is usual in these later times; as hath appeared evidently by many instances: the Papists themselves ac∣knowledging as much, and the Go∣spell herein powerful to confound Po∣perie, and to justify the truth hereof.

SECTIO VII.

Of Sedans Policies in the execution of this Power.


ANd first, that he uses Natural medicines, both for helping, and hurting, giving the Bad Witches [356] secret powders, and poisons to doe mischief withal, and directing his White Devils (I mean the Blessers) to salves and such like medicines, to help their Patients withal.

This he doth,

Partly, to make the Blesser believe that it is not Sedans power, but ra∣there [357] some virtue in these things, that accomplish such rare events, and that so they may be more secure, and forget the covenant, and thereby ac∣complish their mischiefs with more delight, and greediness.

Partly also, to deceive such as seek unto the Witches. And that by securing them in the lawfulness of

this business, seeing they receive nothing but lawful means.
2 By causing them to put confi∣dence in the means: seeing through their infidelity, they prove usually effectual.

3 Thereby to deject them from lawful means, as Physic, &c.

4 And so to nourish them in bla∣sphemie, contempt of God, and all divine assistance, to abolish all trust in GOD, and dependency upon him.


SECTIO VIII.

He uses also Prayers for the helping of diseases.


ANd this, as to colour the se∣cret [358] compact more dangerously:

So,

To countenance the vain bablings, and repetitions of profane and igno∣rant persons.

As also to show his high malice,

and derision of these divine ordinan∣ces: and so also,
To mock and confound the lip-labor, and bodily service of the carnal chri∣stian.

And so, to infer, that all second means, as Physic, &c. are needless, and unprofitable, seeing it may bee done by good prayers: and this is a maine Ground in the ignorant peo∣ple, [359] to reject all lawful helps: hence that speech of theirs; God hath sent it, and he can take it away. Wherein Satins meaning is, to advance him∣self in their hearts, to draw them to his deuotiō, by the use of such prayers, &c. as being pretended to be from God, are therefore, in this respect, more greedily entertained.

Especially herein to cousin the Blesser the more desperately, either [360] by provoking her to rob GOD of his glory, and so to ascribe these Prayers unto Satan, conceiting hereby some Divine power, not so much in Satan, who instructs her, as, in her self, that by these



means is able to doe such wonder∣full things; especially seeing, to the doing thereof, a more strong and cer∣taine Faith is arrogated. As being yielded for the reason, why the Bless∣ser can doe that by prayer, which ano∣there, using the same prayer, cannot doe, because he cannot believe. And so by this presumption of Faith, deluding her in the safety of her estate, that she is at least in high favour with God, in no danger of damnation, whereby she is confirmed in her Practise, and so makes sure her condemnation.

SECTIO. IX.

 Satan shrouds his power under natural diseases.


ANd doth not Satan also shroud his power sometimes very cun∣ningly and dangerously under natu∣rall diseases. As both, being able to judge of the nature and criseis of them, and so to adioine his power thereto,

to the hastening of death, by pre∣uenting the help of Physic, or info∣tuating the same.
As also hereby, being able to assimilate his malicious and desperate af∣flictions of the bodies and souls of [361] men, to some such like natural dis∣eases, that so his power may bee shrouded under Natures distem∣pers.

Certainly, Experience makes this manifest unto vs, And the Policy of Sa∣tan herein is manifold.

And that first to hide his own secret [362] compact under such natural infirm∣tie, that so he may both deceive the Witch, as imagining, that by her na∣turall medicines she cures only a na∣turall disease, and so, that her com∣pact with Satan was either concei∣ted only, or else is now dissolved. But especially, that he may deceive others hereby; and that both the parties af∣flicted; [363] as detaining them by this means from the searching of their hearts, and yielding themselves un∣der the mighty hand of God, by un∣fained



repentance, laboring to make peace with him, that so they may be soundly cured: and so sending only to natural means, as if it were but some ordinary and common infirmity, incident to nature: and so, if it be cured by such means, (as many times the Lord gives success to the means to punish our security, and satisfy carnal wisdom) then Satins power is less feared, less re∣guarded, whereby he prevails yet fur∣there on the soul, by nouzeling it in selfe-conceit of the goodness of it estate, and so the means are aduan∣ced, Gods holy, and ouer-ruling hand abased, and rejected; And the Witch set in the place of God, and so hereby she prevails more fearful∣lie: not only in the hearts of those that are helped, to put confidence in her, but in others also, who are desirous to bee helped at so easy a rate.
And so the skilful Physician (That [364] Ordinance of God appointed hereto) is neglected and despised; and so in

the issue, the whole glory and Crown redounds to the Devil: His power is advanced, his kingdom enlar∣general, the Gospel and Sceptre of Ie∣suss Christ condemned or neglected, and Atheism, yea gross Idolatry, en∣creased and confirmed.
But if these seeming natural dis∣eases [365] be not cured by these means; yet the Credit of the Witch, and Sa∣tans in her, is yet notwithstanding saved.

1. Either, they sought too late.

2. Or, else they did not apply the medicine well.

3. Or, else they did not believe it could doe good.

4. Or, it hath helped many o∣theirs.

5. Or, yet it may doe good: And therefore seek for more: Go to some other Blesser, that hath better skill: Make peace, with more confi∣dence.

6. Or now, go to the Physician at last, to consume their estate, and so breed discontent and despair.

7. Or, languish in despair, seeing God is forsaken, or sought too late unto.
And so Satan triumphs in his [366] spoils, confounds the vnbeleeuing generation, that lives securely, notwithstanding such a Messenger from Hell, might rouse it out, thereof.

And so God is glorified, in ma∣king [367] the world without excuse, that still will live in Ignorance, and des∣pirate Atheism, in horrible pro∣phanenesse, and works of the Di∣uell, and hastening hereby the coming of his holy Son IESVS, with his reward with him, to recom∣pence to every one ac∣cording to his works.


CHAP. II.

Of the detection of Witches, and means thereto.


OF the detection and punishment of Witches: That they are to bee punished with death, especially the Blesser and good Witch, as they term her.


SECT. I.

Of unlawful means of detection.


Having discovered the power of W•tches, and so followed them to the utmost of their glory and ad∣uancement: Seeing now Pride goes before destruction, and the glory of the wicked is their shame: Let vs now consider of their Fall and confusion, and of such means as further the same.

Wherein we may behold the ad∣m•rabble [368] wisdom and power of God, who as he leaves them to their own lusts, to embrace Satan, and sub∣mit

unto him, for the obtaining of their desires; so hath he so disposed in his wonderful Justice, that the God whom they worship, when he hath them sure his own, seeing he is greedy of his Prey, and would glad∣lie have other employment to doe more mischief, therefore he cares not how soon the bargain be per∣formed, and rather then fail, though all other means of detection should cease, himself will bee the instrument to bring his Bear to the Stake: And this he doth,
By Being an instrument for the de∣tection [369] of the Witch, and yet in such dangerous policy, as that herein al∣so he hunts after unstable souls, while he seeks to give them content [370] in the discovery of the Witch which hath done them so much mischief.

To this is it, that he hath not one∣lie [371] The Blesser ready to discover and de∣tect the Bad Witch, that so he might thereby increase the poor peoples rage against the Witch, whereas indeed they should be angry at their sins.

But whereas in their affliction they should seek unto the Lord that smites [372] them, by this discovery of the Bad Witch, he increases the reputation of the Blesser, and so provokes the people more eagerly to run after her.
And now the Good Witch utters easily all her deceitful wares, to the deluding of the parties that are thus inquisitive, and many times to the con∣damning of innocent blood.

And to this purpose, because peo∣ple will bee loath to credit her word, concerning the supposed harmer and Bad Witch, therefore she hath usually either some glass wherein to show the party offending: or else hath certain deceitful and Satanicall expo∣riments, to confirm her former de∣tection of the Witch; As namely, by casting her into the water, sticking of needles, or bodkins, under the stool where she sits, burning of the thing be∣witched, &c. By which, either she con∣firms the superstitious people in a wrong conceit, it being easy for Sa∣tan

to further these signs heereto; or if they conceive aright, yet by using these indirect means for disco∣rye, they shall yet deeplier engage their souls unto the power and ma∣lice of Satan.
And therefore though the Bad Witch may bee detected by these means: yet neither is the wise Chri∣stian to use these means for the dis∣couery of this Monster; neither is the Magistrate to admit of this detection, as a sufficient evidence for the certain discerning and judging of the Witch.

It will then be demanded, What detections and presumptions lawful wee may have to discover a Witch?

To which wee answer, That as the Lord hath ordained the Punishment of these offenders, so no doubt he hath also disposed the means whereby they may be detected, that so they may be justly punished.


SECTIO. II.

Of lawful means of detection, And 1 of Presumptions.


THe means of these Detections are Principally Two. [373]


Examination, and Conviction.
Touching Examination; This is, when the Magistrate makes enquiry concerning this crime, and that not upon every corrupt passion, o• slight occasion, but upon weighty Presumptions, probably con•ecturing of the Witch.

These are:

1 Notorious defamation of this crime, by the most of neighbours which are of the best report.

2 The Accusation of a fellow Witch, either at examination, or at the day of death is not to bee neglected, be∣cause now Authority having seized on him, though she may lie before she be discovered, yet now having con∣fizzed herself, she is an Instrument of the Lords Justice, to satisfy Authority, [374] and clear the innocent, by speaking


truth, &c. (though otherwise she would not) to accuse the delinquent.
3 A third presumption is from the effect of cursing: For when a bad ton∣guide woman shall curse a party, and death shortly follow, this is a shrewd token that she is a Witch, because Witches are accustomed to execute their mischievous practises by cursing and banning, & this may be sufficient for examinatiō, though not of cōuiction.

4 If after Enmity, quarrelling, or threatening, a present mischief do follow.

5 If the party suspected be any kin, or of special acquaintance with a cō∣nested Witch, because it is the manner of them to convey their Trades and Spirits one to another, and especially to those that are nearest about, and most familiar with them.

6 It is observed, that the Witch re∣ceiues some mark from Satan to own her by, in some privy place, which is usually raw, whence the spirit draws blood, &c. and this, if there be no o∣there reason in Nature, is a shrewd presumption, to examine at least.


7 And so if in examination wee find the party contrary and in divers Tales: not only Fearful, for this may be in a good case; but Doubtful and Different, this may bee a Prescription to argue a guilty conscience:
Thus of Presumptions.


2 Of Examination.
Now concerning Examination, this may either be made by Question from the Magistrate, by certain wise and cross Interrogations to this end:

Or else by Torture, when together with words, some violent means are used, by pain, to extort confess∣on, which may have necessary place when the party is obstinate.


3 Of Conviction.
Having used the best means by Examination, the next is Conviction, whereby after just examination, the Witch is discovered; To this must concur, not bare presumptions, but sufficient Proofs: Not such as here∣tofore have been reckoned, or like to those; As scratching the suspected

party, &c. The confession of a party die∣ing, that such a one hath bewitched him. But for manifest conviction, these Proofs are to be esteemed sufficient.
1 The Free confession of the crime [375] by the party suspected, after due exam∣nation, being found in divers tales.

I but say the Party will not confess, Here then the testimony of two suffice∣ent witnesses is currant, proving one of these two things: either,

That the party accused hath made a league with Satan; or hath done some known practise of Witch-craft, producing likely arguments for the confirmation thereof: As

1 That the Witch hath called upon the devil for help.
2 That she entertains a familiar spirit, and had conference with it in any Form, or likeness.
3 That she hath showed ones face in a glass being absent.
4 That they have fore-told things to come.
5 Helped to things lost, whereof they have had no ordinary means


of knowledge.
6 That they have healed by Pray∣ers, Spells, Amulets.
And so, howsoever the League with Satan be secret, and therefore not able to be discovered, yet is both Sa∣tan willing to have it known by of∣fects, for the increase of his kingdom, [376] & hastening the cōfusion of his slaves, and so by such like effects he doth discover them: 1 To have speedier possession of them, lest afterword by remorse they might bee brought to repentance, 2 as hating so detestably even all mankind, that he cannot en∣dure they should enjoy the world, or the benefits thereof, no not an hour: 3 but especially, the Policy of Sa∣tan [377] in this discovery is, 1 to satisfy the rage of the people, who now having found the Witch, instead of being a∣uenged of their sins, doe intend nothing more then the satisfying of their malice in destruction of the Witch, and so therein to procure cre∣dite and estimation to the good Witch, to make more work for her, by whose means, this enemy to mankind, this bad Witch hath been discovered.
And yet we may observe the over∣ruling [378] hand of God herein, that though Satan do hasten the speedy disco∣rye of the Witch: yet the Lord in his holy wisdom, oft-times disposes, that such shall live long, yea die un∣detected: Either because some of them, may belong to the Election, and therefore may repent of this great sin by holy means, and so bee freed both from temporal and eter∣nil punishment.

Or some remain longer vndis∣closed, to execute greater mischief in the world: as they are more cruelly bent thereto.

Or else, there may be some Cove∣nant with Satan by the Witch for some term of years, which he is conten∣ted to bind himself to, to have her more sure, and secure thereby.

And thus of the proofs to disco∣for the Witch, without which she may not safely be condemned.



CHAP. III.

Of the True Remedies against Witch∣craft.


HItherto of the means to Dis∣cover Witch-craft: Now let vs consider of the means whereby we may prevent, and be delivered from the same.


SECTIO I.
VVHEREVNTO, seeing the Lord hath graciously [379] afforded the blessing of Government as a special means to discover witchcraft: and so by cutting off the offender by the Law, very mercifully also to prevent the same: Therefore let vs acknowledge unfeignedly the good∣ness of God herein. Pray we for the Magistrate, that the Lord may give him a discerning spirit herein: and yield we al conscionable obedience to him under God, that for our sins he may not be given up to security &

such strong delusiós, as either to nag∣lect the prosecuting of this sin, or to justify the same.
Surely, as we have great cause to be thankful to our God for that which our Gracious Sovereign hath commended for the perpetual good of the Church to this end: so are we also to bless his Majesty for that further Courage and Conscience of [380] our true Christian and renowned King, that hath also justified the kingdom of Christ against that usurped Hierar∣chie of the Roman Antichrist, being that Arch-coniver, & deceiver of the world: O how hath he bin display∣ed and lively painted out by the Pen of a ready Writer! And shall not the Lord preserve his Anointed to burn the whore with fire, and make her de∣solate? O that the Lord would make vs worthy of such a blessing; that our eyes might behold the fault of Anti∣christ! That the Kingdom of Iesus Christ may be set up in full beauty, that the First-borne may come in, [381] and Iesus Christ may come to judge∣meant:



Even so blessed Father, hasten this thine eternal Word, and let all the people say, Amen.
Now let vs further consider of the Remedies of Witch-craft.

These consist either in preventing of the evils and dangers thereof, or,

In the Recovery and Release from the same.

That these may be prevented, it is manifest:

First, because otherwise, All should [382] be afflicted: For Satan maliceth all, would have none free, and therefore the Lord that hinders his malice herein, hath also ordained means hereunto.

Secondly, the very Witches them∣selves have confessed, that they could not prevail against some: And we see (by Gods mercy) the most freed from them.

What may be the means heereto?

SECTIO. II.

Of the particular Remedies against Witch-craft.


These are either,

1 Deceitful and dangerous.

And these are of two sorts.

1 Either such as seem to help, and yet doe nothing in truth.

2 Or else, if they yield help to the body for the present.

1 They both leave it hereafter to further mischief.

2 And especially do hurt the soul, both: first, for the present: but, 2 chiefly for the time to come.

2 These Remedies are sincere and safe. And these are General, or Par∣ticular.

Natural or Spiritual.
And these either,
Preservative or Restorative:
Or, Private or Public.



SECTIO III.
Preservative Remedies, are such, whereby men are kept from the power & hurts of Witches: and these are such

1 As concern the persons of men,
2 Or, the places of their abode.
1 To preserve the persons of men, the chief & only sovereign means [383] is, that whereas by nature, wee are all the Devils slaves, led captive by him at his will, subject to all sorts of his delusions and torments, upon any occasion: Therefore we would dis∣corn this natural condition out of the Word.

2 Discerning of it, wee would not [384] rest therein: but rather be brought to a denial thereof, to renounce the same by true sorrow and repentance, and so labour to attain unto the glorious liberty of the Sons of God.

And this, by embracing Iesus Christ, [385] and so be partakers of the Covenant of Grace, in his blood, 1 by receiuin

the Gospel, 2 believing the pre∣cious promises therein contained, 3 applying the same to our particu∣lar conditions, 4 and so returning thankfulness unto our GOD. For these •his rich mercies in the pardon of our sins, by yielding up our souls and bodies as a living sacrifice unto our God, in obedience to his blessed will, even with all sincerity, and readiness of mind, and purpose of heart, together with conformity of the outward man in our reasonable∣ble service of God all the days of our life.
As hereby, having the promise, 1 to be kept by the mighty power of God to salvation, 2 to bee always within the special protection of the Lord to bee kept in all our ways: 3 To this end to have the •…nistring of the blessed Angels, to p•…serve vs from the evil one, that there may no Witch-craft prevail against Iacob, nor sorcery against Israel, otherwise then before hath been laid down: not that the Elect may be altogether
free from this affliction, but that it shall turn to their good, their souls shall be safe, and they are nothing so often subject thereto as the wicked and reprobate.
And therefore, laboring to walk honestly as in the presence of God; remembering that his Angels attend for our protection and comfort, and so being careful not to grieve those heavenly soldiers, but to encourage them in their watch and guard over vs, 1. Corinthians chap. 11. and verse 10.

This sovereign Remedy subordi∣nates also many special, prouisoes and caveats, according to our several occasions in the world: As next to renew our right in Christ daily by un•…∣ned repentance. To arm our selves daily by conscionable meditation in the Word, and the providence of the Al∣mighty in the protection of his i will∣drone, Psal. 91. To fear our selves con∣tinually, in respect of our own worth or sufficiency, and so to renounce carnal confidence, and policy, &c.


wholly to resign up our selves into the sole protection of the Almighty. To maintain our Christian liberty and humility with all wisdom, not be∣ing servants unto men, but to bring them to Christ, not to entangle our selves with the world, though wee must use it: to avoid as much as may be even lawful pleasures, and recre∣ations, especially, if they be doubtful & of evil report, as carding &c. wherein usually Satan hath a cast. To be choice of our company, especially, of Papists, profane persons, cursors, swearers, &c. be∣cause by these instruments God tries our sincerity, and Satan if we grow indifferent, either prepares to the Trade, or prevails to afflict vs by them.
To be wise in our Liberality, and Almesdeedes, not distributing to each sort of poor, because many times Witches go under this habit, as being left to this misery, for the confusion of their conceited some∣raignetie, and provocation of their Envy and Malice, to doe further

mischief: especially, to take heed of any such suspected  unto us as bee straight-handed towards them, not to entertain them in our thou∣ses, not to relieve them with our morsels: Especially, if wee dis them as their nature and need is to be free mouthed, and light fingered, as [386] crave of the best, and not to be satis∣fied, and to be bold & impudent, &c.
And therefore here it stands as upon to use a Christian courage in all our Actions, not to fear their curses nor seek for their blessings, for after these things to the Gentiles seek, &c. yet not with ratings or revilings, [387] but, The Lord rebuke thee Satan. If wee do good to any, let it be especi∣ally to the household of Faith: and so to examine such of their belief, of their experiment all knowledge concerning situation, [388] and so we may by Gods mer∣cie, both prevent our selves from be∣ing [389] hurt by them, and happily disco∣for them, and hasten their confusion.

And therefore if we have got any inkling of their leagues or spirits, or


prayers, &c. we are in no case to con∣ceale this, left wee bee confederate [390] with Satan: or at least, for our infi∣delight, and carnal wisdom, but in the name of God let vs manifest what wee know (if occasion serve) to the Magistrate: especially if there be any hurt done, wee are bound in conscience to justify God; to bring his Judgements to light, to hasten his enemies to their confusion, and procure any lawful case to his poor afflicted servants.
Thus may we preserve our persons from the malice of Sedans Instru∣mints.


SECTIO IIII.

Preseruatiues for houses.


COncerning our houses, because it is the policy of Satan to work by degrees, and so by shaking our faith, and distracting, or hindering vs in holy duties, to disquiet or fear vs; and thereby to work upon our In∣fidelities,


and distempers, bringing vs thereby to neglect of holy means, and provoking to impatience, where∣by wee may give the Lord occasion to leave vs to his snares: Therefore hath he used to haunt and molest our dwelling places, with Apparitions and strange annoyances of noise &c.
And therefore it is very fit to pre∣uent him herein by holy means. [391]

And these are, First, the dedication of our houses: and this is done,

1 Not only by conscionable pray∣er unto God, when wee come unto them: 2 but also by solemn vowing and consecrating them to the service of God, as in the first epistle of Paul to Timothy chap. 4. verse 5.

3 To make choice of our habitations where wee may enjoy the powerful ordinances of God. And,

4 If we come to any houses where any monuments of Idolatry have re∣mayned, thence to remove them.

5 Yea, if (as the manner was in Poperie) for the very building of their houses, to fashion them accor∣ding

to the Idolatrous temples: If in such cases we alter so much, as may take away the resemblance of Sedans Throne: I think it (saving better Judgements) though for the pub∣lique, in indifferent things, wee are to leave things to the Magi∣strate, to bee ordered and disposed of by him: yet in our private af∣fairs, where wee have power in our hands, I say, I think it may stand with Christian wisdom and courage.
6 But howsoever, wee may not be ouer-curious in these things, I doe speak as a fool: I take it, nay, I dare avouch (by the grace of Al∣mighty God) that wee shall un∣doubtedly much sanctify them by ho∣lie order, and discipline in the Fami∣lie, by holy Exercises of Prayer and Meditation in the Word, cate∣chizing of the Families, purging out incarnate devils thence, I mean profane and rebellious servants, Psalm 101. that hate to be reproo∣ued, not buying their service so

dear, as to give them liberty to profane the Sabaoths, to let them live in ignorance, profanenesse, &c. lest for these things the wrath of GOD come upon vs, and the Lord leave vs to be afflicted by evil Angels.
This in general hath been the practise of the Saints, and out of the particulars of their practise these par∣ticulars may be avouched, as Deuter. 20. 5. Wee have run for the dedi∣cation of the house, wherein was ac∣knowledged, that wee received it as the free gift of God: not that great Babel which we have builded for the honour of our name, Dan. 4. Psalm 49. &c. But that which God of his mercy hath given unto vs, 1. Chron. 29. and therefore we should give it unto him again, in consecrating it to his service. Examples we have of Abraham building an altar where he dwelt, to worship God, Genes. 12. 8. of Noah when he came out of the Arc to inhabit the earth, that great possession which then the Lord re∣stored, and enfranchised him witha∣all,


Genes. 8. 20. of Iacob, when he came to Bethel, which he consecrates as an house unto God, though other∣wise it was the house of his habitation.
So did Hezekiah sanctify the peo∣ple, when they came to receive the Passeouer, fearing lest they had not glorified him in their families and habitations, 2. Chron. 31.

So did Iacob purge his family of Idolatry, casting out all the Idols of his wife Rebecca, &c. Genesis chap. 35. verse. 1. 2.

Thus of the remedies preservative.


SECTIO. V.

Restorative Remedies general.


NOw the Restorative means foal∣low, and these are either 1 Ge∣nerall concerning whole Countries.

Or else, Special, respecting parti∣cular persons.

The General remedies to dissolve the works of Satan are.



1 The free liberty of the Gospel, Luke 10. v. 18. Satan like Lightning falls down thereat: So doth Moses to this end commend the reverend and obedient hearing of the Lords Prophets, Deuteronomy. 8. 18.
2 Conscionable execution of Justice, against all other offenders, but e∣specially against these, and among these against the Good Witch: she is the means of increasing the other: and▪ yet it is lamentable to observe, that the Good Witch is spared, and ac∣cepted usually of all, because she helps at a pinch, holds life and present hopes, though the Bad Witch now and then, because wee would not loose our present happi∣ness, we cannot endure afflictions, is haled to judgment.

Thus of General Restoratives.


SECTIO VI.

Particular follow for private per∣sons.


THough not absolute and noses∣sorely effectual, as was the gift of casting out of Devils which cea∣sed with the Apostles and Prime Churches: yet profitable and con∣uenient to be used, even unto the worlds end of all Christians, very comfortable in the issue and success thereof.

These are,

1 To search out the true cause of this affliction, namely their sins, Lam. 3. 39. 40. 1. Sam. 5. 15.

2 To approve our faith in the free mercy of God by hearty Pray∣er and Fasting, for pardon especial∣lie of sin, and remouall of the affli∣ction, as may stand with Gods glo∣rye, submitting herein to the will of God, 1. Sam. 16.

3 Submitting patiently to the af∣fliction, and comforting our selves with the special protection of our God, and faithful promise that this shall turn to our good, assuring our selves that the Lord will not suffer vs to bee tempted above our strength, but will grant in his good time a joy∣full issue: not measuring our estate in Gods favour simply by the success herein, much less by the affliction it self, which is common to all, but resolving, though he kill vs, yet to trust in him, and trying our selves by the different bearing and qual∣fying of the affliction that it hath
1 More weaned vs from the world:
2 More humbled vs in a hatred of sin.
3 More provoked vs to hunger after heaven.
4 More purged and prepared vs thereunto.
And thus of the true Remedies.



CHAP. IIII.

Of False Remedies.


SHall wee now take some view of the False and superstitious Remedies, used by the Gentiles, and increased by the Papists, to release and prevent these mischiefs?

Surely, never more need to dis∣play and confound these practises, and yet to name them, is sufficient to confute them: [392]

Which are they?

Examine we the Foundation.

First, in Imitation of Apostolike cal∣lings, there is also presumed Apostolike power, to work miracles, to cast out devils, and so by a miraculous gift, to heal such mischiefs as do proceed from Witches.

Unto which we reply, that that ex∣traordinarie [393] calling ceasing, the effect cease withal:

As 1 being not necessary for these Times, seeing they were ordained
only for the Confirmation of the Do∣ctrine of the Gospel, newly planted and to bee rooted in the hearts of Infi∣dels, or to bee justified thereby a∣against their forged miracles; which being now approved and acknow∣lodged of the Christian Churches, and having a constant and ordinary Ordinance of the Word, to instruct the same sufficiently.
There is no need of such extraor∣dinary Signs, so witnesses the Spy∣rit, 1. Cor. 14. 22. That change of tongs, and some general Miracles, are for a Sign not to them that believe, but to them which believe not: as if the holy Ghost should say, that the Gospel in the first preaching thereof, was accom∣pained with strange and miraculous o∣perations, as a Sign to manifest the power thereof to the confusion of all the feigned miracles of the Gentiles, wherein they vaunting, might bee detained from embracing the glory∣os Gospel of Iesus Christ, as being offered to the world without Effi∣case, from base and contemptible

means: but that the power of the Lord being manifest in the weak∣ness of his servants by these mira∣culous operations, as it was suffice∣ent to make known unto them, that the Gospel was nothing inferior to the Oracles of the Devil, seeing it was honoured with such excellent and supernatural works: so by the in∣ward working thereof in their con∣science, in discovering the secretes of their hearts, and meeting with their hidden, false and secret corruptions, which of all others was the greatest Miracle:
It might thereby gain the true E∣steam among them, that GOD was in, and with the means: 1. Cor. 14. 25. 26. and thereby might prove effe∣ctuall to convert the vnbeleeuing, as the Lord had ordained him unto sal∣uation. Acts Chap. 13. Verse 46, 47, &c.

Secondly, As it is not necessary [394] that these gifts should now re∣maine: so if they did remain, they might then challendge the effectual∣ness


of the Apostles preaching, as if that the Gospel were not sufficiently con∣firmed by them, seeing still it needs to be confirmed by miracles.
3 And seeing the Promise and the Gift go together, therefore, in that [395] the Promise was only made to the Apostles, concerning those times, to doe those things, and not to the ge∣narrations of the churches succeeding therefore seeing the Promise was only in force unto them, it follows also [396] necessarily, that the gift was limited accordingly.

And therefore, though it be pre∣tended, that the Church of the Ie•es [397] had this power, and why not then the Church of the Gentles, under Christ, seeing Christ was nothing inferiou• to Moses? yet seeing no certainty can be gathered out of the Word, of a∣ny such Jewish power, but that rather they are condemned herein, as doing it by the help of Satan, and so our Saviour in that reply, drives out one nail with another; and when they accused him to cast out Devils, by [398]


help of Beelzebub, returns it upon them, By whom then doe your children cast them out? As if he had said, Cast the Beam out of your own eyes. It is you that cast out devils by the help of Beelzebub, and would you excuse your selves by condemning of me? or do you measure me by them? There∣fore they shall be your Judges, they shall justify me whom you condemn, [399] their master hath acknowledged me to be the Son of God, though they work by Satan, and therefore shall rise up in judgment against you, that condemn me to work by Sa∣than, who by them hath justified me, to be the mighty power of God.
As for that they allege, That [400] such tokens shall follow them that believe: In my name they shall cast out d•uels, &c. Mark 16. 17. This is to be under∣stood concerning the church immediate∣lie after Christ, to be fulfilled only unto them, and their immediate Success∣sours; for some short time, so long as the Church continued under Hey∣then Governors and▪ Persecutors, which

were to bee convinced and bridled by these mighty works. And there∣fore, [401] though in all Ages of the Church, there have appeared always some, that have cast out devils; yet hath this been, not by the Power of God, which ceased in the decay of zeal and syn∣ceritie, with the Primitiues; but by the Power of Delusion, through the effi∣cacy of Satan, whereby Antichrist then [402] rising, and advancing himself in the hearts of Gods people, as being given up thereto for their disobedience to the Gospel, by means of these fained and devilish wonders, confirmed in the hearts of the unstable people, his vo∣luntary Worship, and Doctrine of Devils; [403] and so enabled himself thereby above all that is called God.
And that these are but lying won∣ders and deceivable may appear yet further by the means whereby they are wrought.

The first whereof, Is the Name of Iesus, by the virtue whereof the Di∣uell [404] is pretended to give place, and against his will to bee thrust out of
possession. Wherein, though wee deny not, that it is lawful to call [405] upon The Name of Iesus in Prayer, for the deliverance of any, that are possessed, and bewitched, yet that wee may presume, that our prayer shall take effect, otherwise then may stand with GODS glory, and the good of the Church: this is contrary to the Nature of the thing wee pray for, which being a Temporal, ought to be begged, but with Condition only, if God will, as may stand with his glory, as in the six and twenty chapter of Saint Matthews Gospel: and also, contrary to our duty and allegiance, which doe pray, That the will of GOD may bee done in all things, that our wills may be subject unto his.
And seeing the Papists will have this Name of Iesus effectual, not so much, [406] because it is inuocated by a Beleeuer, having Faith and understanding to call on GOD aright; As only, by the very Name uttered in so man

letters and syllables; though with•… Faith, yea without Understanding, which by virtue hereof, shall bee able, being repeated, to cast out Satan without exception or resi∣stance. This certainly can bee no Miracle, but a Satanicall delusion.
1 Because the Name of Christ, thus barely pronounced without faith and understanding, hath no warrant from the Word.

2 Neither doth it allow unto any ordinary Christian any such special calling hereunto.

3 Nay, it is flat contrary to the na∣ture of the Word, which is only effe∣ctuall, not when it is spoken, and barely pronounced, but when it is understood and believed both of the Deliverer, and the Receiver also, as that and other like Scriptures are to be understood, Philip. chap. 2. verse. 10. Hebr. 4. 2.

Much like may be answered con∣corning the relics of Saints: another [407] Remedy which they have, to cast out devils. For howsoever they allege,


that a dead man was raised at the Grave [408] of Elizeus, that Peters shadow and Pals handcherchiefs did many strange things: yet doth not this prove, that their Relics may doe the like. [409]
First because the times are now dif∣ferent, there is no need of such means, as was in those days.

Secondly, The Gift is therefore cea∣sed, as serving for necessary times, and the Relics, are for the most part counterfeit, and therefore they can produce but counterfeit Miracles.

Touching the Sign of the Cross, [410] howsoever this bee applied to cure in these cases;

Yet, this is blasphemous impiety, to ascribe to the Creature, what is pro∣per to the Creator. Namely to doe Miracles.

Neither the Apostles, nor the Son of Man himself, his Godhood being set apart, being able to doe these things, but only the Finger of GOD. Exod. 8. Matth. 12.

As for the use of Holy water, Grains, Salt, Images, Agnus Dei, &c. To this

purpose the Truth is, these are pro∣phone superstitions, because they are [411] not sanctified by the Word, to that end: That which Elisha did by ca∣sting in Salt, being not from the virtue of the Salt, which was not hal∣lowed but by an extraordinary calling, and gift enabling there unto.
Lastly, whereas also it was ordi∣nary among the Papists, to use Ex••∣cismes [412] to this end; Namely, to ad••re and command the Devil in the Name of God, to go from the Partis. This is now ceased, because the Gift of Mi∣racles, as also the promise annexed to the Gift is ceased withal.

For the better understanding here∣of observe wee farther herein; That howsoever by these deceitful Re∣medies afflicted parties seem to be relieved, and delivered from Satins power: yet indeed it is nothing so.

This appears:

Because, though the torments may cease, yet the Devil leaves not the Parties, but only cease for a time willingly, to establish men in Error,

and in worshipping of himself, and so enters deeper into them.
And this is the Effect of all such Remedies as are procured by Conjure∣tion, and the Charms and spells there∣of: whereby though the Devil seem to be bound from hurting, yet the par∣tie thereby indeed is more bound to his power & malice, & though he seem by the virtue of such holy Names of Ie∣suss, &c. to be cast out, yet doth he only cease to afflict the body for a time, that so he may procure greater confidence in this his Trade: And thereby take possession both of body and soul.

It may bee here then demaun∣ded, [413] Whether seeking acquaintance with the Witch, and using of her to our houses bee dangerous, and whither (I say) It bee lawful to re∣lieve them, or no: If wee suspect them to bee such, seeing it is concei∣ued that they have power over vs by the same?

To which wee answer, that in our Belief we are first bound by the Law of GOD to doe good to the Household of

Faith, Gal. 6. 10. and so after these, to relieve where there is most corpo∣rall [414] need, As for the reliving of these Witches, seeing suspicion may deceine; therefore we may not simply neglect these, If they be only suspected; so wee doe it from a good ground: Namely, obedience to Gods Comman•∣meant; and a compassion to them, e∣specially to doe their souls good: Adjoining some spiritual Exhortatio• withal, to instruct them if they bee ignorant, to dete••e them from such damnable and odious courses. Auoi∣ding wisely
Vain glory to bee seen of men, as Matth. 6. 5, 6, 7. Especially taking heed, that we relieve them not, as the Gentiles were wont to worship their gods; that they may not hurt vs, [415] in carnal policy, seeking to bind thē to vs: as knowing that Fear in this case, as it may give just cause to the Lord, to leave vs into their hands, for the pu∣nishment of our infidelity: so if our bodies escape, yet a worse thing may certainly follow; Namely, the

stealing away of your hearts from God by this means, and so the enthral∣ling of our souls under the power of Satan.
And being wise also, in the man∣ner of our relief, whereby we may happily try them:

1. Namely to give them only for necessity, of the meanest, seeing these being puffed up▪ with their con•or∣ted [416] powers, think nothing to good for them. As I have observed, they must fare of the best, &c,

2. And to keep our selves within the bounds of mans authority, to see them re∣leiued at their houses, and that by set∣ting them a work, and so paying them an ouer-plus for it, that they may provide for themselves: For hereby happily you may also discern thē, As being an idle & vagrant ge∣neratiō, always gadding: their own house is a Wild-cat, they must needs be stirring whom the Devil drives.

3. And lastly, to relieve their by∣dyes as upon any just occasion not to con∣ceale their wretchedness, but to accuse

and draw them to the Judgment Seats, for the salvation (if it may bee) of their poor souls.
And though Judgment may seas upon them: yet so long as they live they may be relieved, only with the coursest, and that for necessity, es∣pecially here an Interpreter, one of a thousand prove their best Purueyo• to minister a word in due season, for the comfort of the soul.


CHAP. V.

Of a Principal Remedy against Witch∣craft: Namely, the due Execution of Justice upon the Offenders.


THus have we showed both what deceitful and dangerous Remedies have and may be used, to case this af∣fliction.

As also what Lawful Remedies are to be applied hereto.

It now remains, that wee ad∣join A special public Remedy, for the preventing and rooting out of

this mischief; Namely, Execution of Justice.
And here first, Let vs determine, what measure of punishment is due to this Sin.

Secondly, we will add some Mo∣tiues to encourage the godly Magistrate, to the Execution of the Punish∣meant.


SECT. I.

Of the punishment of Witches with death.

What Punishment is due to Witch∣craft.


The Word of GOD doth clearly prove, That thou shalt not suffer a Witch to live. Exod. 21. 18.

And so the practise of Holy men, hath been agreeable thereunto in the due Execution of this sentence against them in all ages. As appears:

Not only among the Heathen, who even by the Light of Nature were endued for the very safety of Life, to punish this Sin with Death.
But especially among Christions where generally such Malefactors are condignly punished.
And that this practice ought to stand [417] in force, appears.

1. Because, this being a Judicial Law whose penalty is death, seeing they have in them a perpetual equi∣tic, and doe seem to maintain some moral precept, is Perpetual: As ser∣uing to maintain the Equity of the three first Moral Precepts of the first Table; which cannot be kept, unless this Law be put in execution.

2. This Judicial Law, hath in it the Equity of the Law of Na∣ture, and therefore is perpetual: It being natural that an Enemy to the State, a Traitor, &c. Should die the death.

And such is a Witch, unto God, the King of Kings.

3. The Witch is an Idolater, will∣fully and in a most presumptuous manner, as renouncing God willingly, and choosing Satan to bee her Some∣reign Lord, therefore according to

that Law, she is to be stoned to death, Deuteronomy. 17. 3. 4. 5.
4 The Witch is a seducer of others to Idolatry, as appears by their com∣mon practise both upon their friends to whom they usually bequeath their spy∣ritz, and upon all whom they in∣struck, to rest in charms, &c. And therefore to be put to death, Deuter. 13. 6. 9.

5 Nay, she is a murderer both of souls and bodies; and therefore, in this respect, doth also deserve death.


SECTIO. II.

Answer to Objections against this Execution.


1 ANd therefore, though the di∣uell doe the mischief, yet is the Witch confederate and accessory thereto: nay (in her own conceit) Principal and Mistress: and therefore by the Law of Accessories, is to die the death.
2 Therefore, though they should repent, yet die they must, to justify God, and prevent further ensnaring: that though their body perish, yet the soul may be saved, 1. Cor. 5.
3 Though she repent not, yet seeing she must have some time of ripen∣tance; though she do not, yet is In∣stice to proceed without respect of persons. In zeal to Gods glory, and love of sincerity, so Moses, Exo. 32. 28. and Phinehas, &c. Number. 25. 8.

And this sincerity of Justice doth require: That though death and such hurts ensue not, yet for the offence done to God, in combining with Sa∣than, [418] &c. the parties are to be execu∣ted accordingly. For so the word doth plainly imply: and heretofore the Law hath been defective in this case: yet blessed be God, for a further [419] perfection herein: and will not the Lord daily perfect his work? If wee believe, shall wee not see greater things then these? Well,

1 Let this instruct the godly ma∣gistrate to have an eye, especially to


the Blesser, that reigns among vs: And to draw the people to the true and lawful means of helping soul and body, by rooting out of these Good Witches, which are rife almost in every parish, and placing in stead thereof a conscionable Minister, as that the people may require the Law at his mouth, that he may pray to the Lord for them, that they may bee healed.
2 Let this teach him to punish sin, of conscience, not for by re∣spects, meeting with the Witch, as an Idolator offending against God, not so much as a murderer sinning a∣against man.

3 Let his own safety move him hereunto, who as he hath been, even so still by the execution of In∣stice, may be free from these Mon∣sters.

4 And lastly, Let the glory of God (in advancing the Gospel) especially here prevail, which is by no kind of thing more undermined then by Witches.


Is glorious in nothing more then in rooting out Antichrist the great Conjurer and deceiver of Gods peo∣ple, and banishing superstiti∣on the very bed and nursery of witch∣craft.
    The end of the second Book.

THE MYSTERY OF WITCH-CRAFT.

The third Book.

Discovering. The several Uses of this Doctrine of WITCH-CRAFT.

LONDON Printed by Nicholas Oaks.

1617.


OF THE DIVERS USES OF THIS DOCTRINE OF WITCH-CRAFT. The third Book.

CHAP. I.

First, it serves for reproof, and that many ways.



SECTIO I.

As first of the Atheism, and Irreli∣gion that overflows in the Land.


DOth not Satins Policy in this trade of Witch∣craft, [420] pretending to afflict and hurt, but, when he is seen by the


Witch: and then to hurt only the by∣die, or goods; Plainly obscure and oboe∣lish out of the minds of men, the Pro∣uidence of the Almighty, as if Satan were not subject to God, and sent by his providence, that he were not countermanded by the power of God, but only subject to the Wit∣ches power? Doth not this exalt her in the place of God, provoke the peo∣ple to fear and love her, &c?
2 And seeing the hurt appears only by his cunning to be done to the body, doth not this nourish the people in this Atheism, that either their souls are in no danger, all is well with them, or they need not trouble themselves thereabout, see∣ing the devil doth not trouble them? nay, doth not this nourish this conceit in their minds, that they have no souls, or else, that they are mortal? they end with this life, and therefore use all means for the maintenance hereof, and then care is taken suffi∣ciently.

3 Doth not this convince the A∣theist


that dreams of General Grace;
All shall be saved; seeing by this Doctrine and Practise of Witch-craft: It is now apparent, That not only naturally we are the bondsta•es of Satan, but that many purposely yield up themselves to his cursed will, re∣nounce their salvation, to become his slaves, bind themselves to eter∣nil damnation, and so are made oft∣times fearful spectacles of the Di∣vine vengeance, being carried away by the devil, and haled violently to destruction?

4 Doth not this justly confound that, common delusion, That there is no hell, but to be in debt, in prison? &c.

Doth not this convince such as live in that profane and fearful manner, as if there were no God to Judge them, no devil to torment them? Do not their desperate courses plainly dis∣cover to whom they doe belong? Are they not of their father the Di∣uell, because his works they doe, are they not running headlong to Hell, by their desperate impenitency?


doth their damnation sleep, that so turn the grace of God into wan∣tonnes? Hath not the god of this world blinded them, that they cannot obey the truth? Are they not appointed to per∣dition that this crucify the Lord of life? Is there any more sacrifice left for sin for such, but even violent fire to consume the adversaries? Hebrews cha. 10. 26. 27. Iude verse 4. Iohn chap. 8. 44.

SECTIO VIII.

It is a plain conviction of the con∣tempt of the Word.


FOr as the Lord, when Pharaoh would not believe his servant Mo∣ses, did therefore give him up to be deluded by his Sorcerers and Enchan∣ters, who doing such wonders in show, as Moses did in truth, did thereby harden Pharaohs heart, and so ripened his sin and iniquity: e∣uen so it is just with God, because
we despise his Word, and contemn his true Prophets: therefore to leave the common people generally to bee hardened by such fained wonders as the prophets of Satan make show of in the world, that they might bee effectual, to increase transgressions a∣against the Lord, and so to ripen them to the day of vengeance.
Thus did the Lord give up Saul, for his disobedience and contempt of the Word, to seek unto Witchcraft, 1. Sam. 28.

Whereby he ripened his sin, and drew on speedy vengeance up∣on himself, and Gods People for his sake, 2. Sam. 29.

Thus was Ahaziah left to seek help of the god of Ekron, that so he might receive of the Lord the Sen∣tence of his destruction,. Reg. 2


SECTIO. III.

Of Reproof.


IT reproves the Idolatry and false worship of the Times, conuincing the falsehood and abomination of Popery, and iustifying the truth and virtue of the Gospel of Iesus Christ.

As that, first, where superstitious reigns, and is not yet weeded out, there wee see Witch-craft to be mag∣nified, and so to abound as in the Orcades among the Heathen.

But where the Gospel hath got foe•t∣ing, [421] there all unclean spirits depart, gross Witch-craft is banished, Ado∣rite prevails, to the rooting out thereof: the Word prevails to heal our infidelity, and so secure vs from their dangerous snares.

And yet (which is to be lemon∣ted) wee see the Good Witch still to get ground, even because she helps, and satisfies the flesh: doth not this are∣go plainly, what God we worship

principally, even our pleasure, our riches, our health? Is not the Good Witch respected, because she supplies these? And is not our belly then our god? the wedge of gold our hope? Doe wee not for our own sakes respect the Blesser? Is it not a plain worcester∣ship, yea Idolatry which we com∣mit with her?

SECTIO IIII.

It condemns the gross profanenesse and disobedience of the Ages present.


1 IN that the Infernal spirits are more observant and diligent for the hurt of the soul, then we are for the salvation thereof: they are com∣passing continually, omitting no base offices to serve their Mistress turns.

2 The abundance of Witches, the horrible sottishness and wilfulness of the people which run to these Blessers, that are given up by God the Lord, to forsake the true means


of their salvation, and fly  helps: doth not this plainly argue the general disobedience of the peo∣ple; and therefore, because they receive not the love of the truth, therefore God hath left them to these strong delusi∣once, to believe lies, as in the second e∣pestle of Saint Paul to the Thessaloni∣ans in the second chapter and eleven verse.
Surely, as the Lord gave up Saul to a spirit of Error to bee tormen∣ted, and mis-guyded thereby, be∣cause he forsook the euerliuing Lord, and disobeyed his Prophets: So is it just with Almighty GOD, to give up the people to be besotted with this judgment, even because they have detained the truth of God in unrighteousness, and re∣proached the same by their profane and most abominable conuersati∣on.


SECTIO V.

Reproof of Hypocrisy.


IT reproves the Hypocrisy and fear∣full Diss•…ulation that reigns even a∣mong professors.

And that first, as Satan pretends subjection to the Conjurer and Sorcerer, when indeed his purpose is to bee Moisten of all: Even so the Hypocrite, howsoever he pretend subjection to the Lord, yet his purpose is to serve his own lusts, to advance himself above all that is called God, to bring men into bondage, to smite them on the face, . Cor. 11. 2. Thess. . 12.

2 As Satan pretends many things to be done by the Witch, which in∣deed are done by himself, that he may bring the Witch into danger, ab∣use others by her, and conceal his wickedness more cunningly: even so doth the Hypocrite father much upon God, which is but the device of his own brain.


And doth not this plainly con∣uince the hypocrisy of the Trees, that whereas the Good Witch is far more dangerous then the Bad, yet because the Blesser helps, and serves turn, to maintain life; &c. therefore she must escape: whereas the Bad Witch, because she is hurtful, therefore she must bee punished. Doth not this argue, that not for conscience sake, but for our own respects Justice is executed, Sedans power is oppug∣ned?
And doth not Satan, when he pretends to doe most good, then doe [422] most hurt? surely so doth the hypocrite, under colour of long prayers, denoure widows houses; Even as the Blesser, under pretence of Good prayers, en∣thralleth the soul, so doth the hypo∣crete, by pretence of formal prayers and bodily worship detain men in will∣worship, and all profanenesse to the ruin of soul and body.



CHAP. II.

A second general use, is for Instruction. That first wee would leave to a∣uoyd the Causes of Witch-craft.


Which are

1. Ignorance.
2. Infidelity.
3. Malice.
4. Covetousness.
5. Curiosity, &c.
6. Pride, &c.
Concerning Ignorance of GOD.

THat this is a cause of Witch-craft, appears:

Because, through the Ignorance that [423] is in vs, we are led captive by Satan at his pleasure, as being subject justly to his strong delusions, because we have not received the Love of the Truth, be∣cause wee know not whom to worcester∣ship, how to worship God a right; therefore doth the God of this world blind


vsbecause the Gospel is hid from vs. 2. Cor. 4. 5, 6.
And doth not Witch-craft usually prevail; when either there is no means for knowledge, or else the Truth of God is detained in vnrighte∣ousnesse, and so for our disobedience wee are justly given up to such De∣lusions, remember what hath for∣merly been observed to this end.

The Remedy thereof is:

1. To have the word of God dwell plen∣tifully among vs, both in the Public ordinances of the Preaching and Ex∣pounding thereof; as also in the Pri∣uate Reading, & conferring of the same in our Families.

2. To have the Power thereof, to Rule vs in all our ways: To yield [424] obedience thereunto, to hearken to this voice alone, and to cleave there∣unto constantly: Endeavouring so to walk, as we have received Christ Iesus. Col. 2. 4. And to be daily cast into the mould thereof. 2. Cor. 3.


CHAP. III.

Touching Infidelity.


THat this is also a Cause of this fearful Judgment, appears:

1. Because by unbelief, we lye o∣pen to Satins power. 1. Pet. 5. 8, 9.

2. Through unbelief in God, we are brought to believe in him, to em∣brace and adore him as the God of this world. 2. Cor. 4, 5, 6.

3. Hereby wee provoke the Just Lord to leave vs to his power, to be ensnared of him in all deceiueablenes of Error, and damnable Impiety.

4. This is the special bond whereby Satan ties his Proselites unto him, and they that seek help from them, they must believe that they can help them, &c.

And therefore, the Remedy thereof is:

1. As to learn to know God in Ie∣suss Christ. Ioh. 17. 2.
2. To labour above all things to be found in Christ Iesus. Psal. 3. 10.
1. By seeing our selves in our selves to be

utterly lost by the Law. Rome. 7.
2. And feeling our state to be most desperate and irrecoverable.
3. Groan we earnestly under the burden thereof, Matth. 11. 28.
4. And hunger wee after Iesus Christ to be eased thereof. Matth. 5.
5. Seeking unto him in his blessed and precious promises: to bee eased of our sins.
6. Meditating seriously on the power and virtue of his Sacrifice, which he hath offered for our sin.
7. And applying the same, to our particular soars and diseases.
8. Resting in Iesus Christ alone, as [425] our only and sufficient Saviour.
9. And rejoicing in him above all the treasures in the world, as in the most precious Pearl. Matth. 13.
10. Labouring to approve our love unto Iesus Christ.
1. By forsaking all things for his sake, our beloved s•nne; yea, if it be re∣quired, even life, and all. Matth. 19.

2. Being ready to take up his Cross, and follow him. Matth. 16. 2•.


3. Denying still our own wisdom and righteousness, that wee may bee found in him. 1. Cor. 3. 18.
4. And for thy sake, loving the bre∣throne. 1. Plucking them out of the [426] fire. 2. And exhorting each other daily; waiting with great patience their Conversion, and maintaining [427] the Fellowship with all meekness of wisdom, and holiness of Con∣uersation. 2. Tim. 2. 2.

In all Constancy and Patience, working out our salvation. Phi. 2. 12.


CHAP. 4.

As for Malice.


THat this is an occasion of Witch∣craft, Apppeareth: 1. Because.

1. Deprives vs of the Love of God, and so causing the Lord to hate vs, wee are given up to this damnable practise.

The rather, because it is both a present and effectual means (as wee think) to execute the utmost of our revenge and it is also a most daunge∣gerous

means to colour our Malice, while it so brings it about, that partly for Fear, wee are forced to relieve such Instruments, that they may doe vs no harm, and wee are drawn to seek help from them in our extremities, whereby their Ma∣lice being concealed, is more increa∣sed, and being often disappointed by Satan, is more inflamed, sealing up to these cursed Captives their eter∣nil damnation: and hastening here∣by the vengeance of the LORD upon them, both in the Pining of their bodies, by this their confoun∣ded Malice, and prouoaking them to malign GOD the more, the more they are disappointed, where∣by his wrath is more kindled a∣against them: they are hereby more eager upon Satan to execute their rage, more deeply obliged unto them, by new employments and at length more desperately confounded by him, in their detection and punishments.
Learn wee therefore to remedy this sin, Thus:

1. Labour wee to have the love [428] of Christ shed abroad in our hearts, that so for his sake, wee may love one an∣other.
2. And consider we, That ven∣geanee [429] belongs unto God, he is able to right our wrongs, he is only for to doe it.

3. Consider wee not so much, what hurt may arise from the Cry∣ture, as what good may redound unto vs thereby; and whether wee receive not daily good from the hands of our God, sufficiently to countervail the evil of the Creature? Whether our GOD •ee not able to recompense any evil from the Creature, whatsoever? Whither he cannot turn it to our great good?

4. Give we not way to the least pas∣zion of anger, or discontent, least our yielding to these passions, draw our confirmed malice.

5. And be we wise to set bounds to our unreasonable desires, least being not satisfied therein, we break out to envy, and so to malice others.

6. Especially labour wee to appre∣hend the favour of God in Iesus Christ: that so being at peace with his Ma∣iestie, and gaining true content even in our estates, we may possess our souls in patience, and maintain the V of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
7. And Practise wee especially the Love of our enemies; strive we to over∣come evil with good, to forgive our en∣mies, to pray for them, &c,

8. Inuring our selves to bear af∣flictions.

9. And weaving our souls from the love of the world.

10. Still endeavouring to make even with our God, and to be prepared against the coming of Iesus Christ.


CHAP. V.

A fourth Cause of Witch-craft is Cove∣tousnesse.


1 A As excluding through di∣strustfull and insatiable de∣sires, the protection of the Almighty.

2. Exposing to desperate contempt of the Word, in all fearful impiety.
3. Hereby enraging and prouo∣king the Conscience to just revenge.

4. Whereby despair ceasing on the soul, is become hereby a pray unto Satan, upon hope of present re∣lease.

5. Being forced by such insatiable desires to use unlawful means to com∣posse the same, is therefore baited by Satan with fit matter hereunto: What will he not promise to fetch over the poor soul? What will not the soul part with to enjoy the pre∣sent payment? Whats this birth-right to it, since it dyes for hunger, give it the present, and take the future who list. Gen. 27.

The remedy therefore of Covetous∣ness is:

1. First, To convert our Desires to heavenly objects; and so to affect that dureable and true riches.

2. And so discerning daily our want of grace, wee shall still be coveting the best gifts. 1. Cor. 12.

3. As for earthly things, deliver we only our daily bread, as for tomorrow let it care for it self. Matth. 6.
4. And cast we our care on God, be∣cause he cares for vs. 1. Pet. 

5. Let our Request be made manifest unto God, who will not fail vs, nor [430] forsake vs.

And learn wee to bee contented with our estates, submitting to the will of God in all things.

Consider we the Judgements of God, upon th Covetous persons, he is a spoil∣ler of others, and therefore shall bee spoiled: he pines himself and robs others; his children shall bee vaga∣bonds, and his memorial perish. Psal. 109.

Meditate wee often on the divine Providence extending to the briutish and dumb creatures. Matt. 6.

And consider we seriously of the Love of God, in Iesus Christ; who if he have provided heaven for vs, will he deny vs these things? And [431] seeing with all our care we win nothing, without his blessing, la∣bore


we rather to use well what wee have, then to be coveting more: that our little being blessed, may be suffi∣cient unto vs. Psal. 37.
And therefore seek we the bless∣sing of God, by renewing our right in Christ Iesus, and daily sanctifying of the Creature, by the Word and Prayer: and so shall the mind bee quieted in the smallest treasure. 1. Tim. 4. 5.


CHAP. VI.

A fifth Cause of Witch-craft is Curio∣sitie, And that because:


HEreby the mind is delivered from necessary knowledge, to search af∣la vain and hidden mysteries.

And so is nourished in wavering, and uncertainty in Judgment.

And thereby is easily removed from such sound Principles and grounds of Truth as it hath received some taste of out of the Word of God. And so is brought by degrees to forsake GOD, and his holy governance, as crossing


corruption and confounding carnal wisdom.
And so is justly forsaken of God, and thereby given up by the power of Satan to be deluded.

And so justly deluded, by such vain pretence of extraordinary skill and know∣ledge; as through pride of heart is affe∣cted through discontent ensuing from an enraged conscience, is greedily embraced to give present satisfactiō.

And thereby is provoked, with any future harms, to procure present ease and content.

Hereupon future hopes are deluded, and so desperately rejected concer∣ning Salvation, upon a vain per∣swasion, of what this extraordinary knowledge will advance vs to. Name∣lie to be as Gods to know good and evil especially if here any possibility shall appear to execute such power, by doing wonderful things, as may ex∣alt vs to this conceit of Divine Ex∣cellencie.

And this is furthered by a base E∣steam of such knowledge as concerns

salvation, as being ordinary, common to all, obvious to every capacity. And therefore seeing, all shall not be saved: hereupon wee are easily ensnared to seek after further knowledge, to look for Revelation, to search into hidden mysteries.
Here Satan closes with a profane heart, tenders means of the hidden Mysteries, colours them with holy Names, and glorious pretences; as of subjection to man, &c. And so easi∣lie prevails upon an unstable soul, to draw it with some covenant with Sa∣tan to some liking of this skill, es∣pecially being carried so covertly, likely to prevail so effectually.

The Remedy hereof is.

To inform the iudgemēt through∣lie by the blessed word.

And so to be brought in subjection by the power thereof, to the denial of car∣nil wisdom, with an holy resolve∣tion in all things to be guided by it.

To magnify the mercy of God, for so plain and easy a Rule to them that will understand, and to cleave to this



Rule alone for direction in all our ways. Psal. 8.
6. Neither leaning on the Right hād after dreams, and speculations: Nei∣there leaning on the left hand to humane traditions as if the word were insuffi∣cient. Being still humbled in the sense of our failings, to what is commanded, and for our ignorance of that wee should know: And Living by Faith, in expectation of what is promised.

Endeavouring as wee have recei∣ued Christ, so to walk in him.


CHAP. VII.

The last and Principal Cause to draw vs into this deadly snare, is Pride, and vain glory.


1 AS being both the ground of all the other evils.

2. Being the first sin that eu∣tred into the world, and discovered our fearful bondage under Satan.

3. Being the last sin that we shall put of, and therefore when Satan


hath done with all other, he begins with this.
4. Being the sin that accompanies our best actions, to deprive God of his glory and our selves of the comfort of thē.

5. Giving the Lord occasion to leave vs to Satins power, for this our great blasphemy and sacrilege.

6. Giving Satan occasion the rather to prevail in regard of such pretences and masks which this sin hath to shroud it self under, as thankeful∣ness of God: Joy in his blessings: furthe∣rance of others good in communicating with thē, what God hath vouchsafed unto vs. And being his most effectual bait to ensnare vs in this dangerous Covenant, because by Pride we are blin∣ded that wee cannot see our misery, nor any danger lies upon vs: and therefore are more easily drawn to make up the measure of it.

By Pride, we are provoked to conceit our own excellence so far as to think nothing good enough for vs: and we think the Lord doth vs wrong, in not respecting vs accordingly. And



therefore we will right our selves, and entertain what is offered, though it bee by Satan, yet wee presume to make it serve our turns, wee con∣ceiue so highly of our selves, that no∣thing can defile, nothing prevail to our hurt. Is it not our great privilege to command Satan? shall it not make for our glory, to hurt and help at our pleasure? Will it not please vs high∣lie, to hear, The Voice of GOD, and not of man.
Thus doth Satan by Pride, draw vs∣into his snare.

And therefore learn we to Reme∣die this great evil. As:

First, labour we to discern through∣lie our cursed Nature, take we an often view of that poisonous fountain, and though in regard of outward conformity and fair show, we may have cause to lift up our heads, yet when wee look thoroughly within, we may hang thē down with shame.

2. Consider not the good we do, so much as the evil we daily commit, yea, that end that accōpanies our best actions.

3 And acknowledge wee, that whatsoever good we have, 1 it is un∣deserved on our part, 2 we daily de∣serve to be stripped of it.
4 Remember wee, the most glory∣os creatures have been ouer-taken with this sin, and therefore, let vs fear our selves most, when wee enjoy gre∣test favours.

5 And yet trust God most, when he seems to do least for vs.

6 Labouring to doe all things as in the presence of the Almighty: And,

7 Avoiding very carefully the ap∣place and estimation of men.

8 Not measuring the grace of God by outward complements.

9 Nor despising the least grace i• o∣theirs, though we far exceed them.

10 Abounding in thankfulness to God, even for the least of all his mer∣cies.

11 And daily reckoning with our selves for the abuse of his blessings.

12 Walking faithfully and diligent∣lie in the Callings which GOD hath placed vs in.



13 And submitting to these afflict∣once, that are incident thereto.
14 Meditating often on the afil∣liation of Iesus Christ.

15 And on that fullness of glory that makes for vs in heaven.


CHAP. VIII.

Conuinceth natural corruption.


AND doth not this Doctrine of Witch-craft, describe unto vs the truth of our natural condition, that we are the very slaves of Satan, and vessels of wrath, following the prince that rules in the children of disobe∣audience, and so being led captive by him at his will? Ephesians chap. 2. verse. 1. 2.

Yea certainly, though we should never so much wash our selves with Niter, and stand upon our sincerity, yet the bleating of the sheep, and lowing of the oxen, I mean, such running to Blessers, and closing with cur∣sers,


our fearing these, and worship∣ping the other: our refusal of know∣ledge, and lawful means for help, and seeking to these devilish and most unlawful remedies are apparent Evidences, that his servants wee are whom we thus subject unto, him we acknowledge to be our Master, our Lord, and Saviour, whom especial∣lie we seek unto, in the time of our trouble.

CHAP. IX.

That hereby we are taught the right use and excellency of Faith.


AND doth not this Doctrine of of Witch-craft show vs also the true means, whereby wee may be delivered from the bondage of Sa∣than, and so be translated into the glorious liberty of the sons of God? yea surely.

We are hereby instructed in the ex∣cellencie of Faith, and so to labour the attaining and preserving thereof.

As that we may out of the former discourse perceive, that this Faith is it, which Satan requires of his ser∣uants, to bind himself unto them, (if they will believe in him:) his special aim is at our most precious faith, if he can shake vs herein, if he can cast vs from this hold, he makes sure account of vs, he holds vs hereby certainly to damnation: Doth not this plainly euince the excellency here∣of? doth it not by the contrary con∣firm, how necessary this is to sal∣uation, that it alone is sufficient hereto, Acts 13.
2 Doth not the Blesser require this Covenant of her Proselites, she will help them: if they believe in her, that she can doe them good? &c.

And who are they that are freed from Sedans power, are they not only the faithful? those which are truly elected, either Satan can∣not touch them at all, or else his af∣flictions shall tend to their good: well may he afflict the body, but the soul shall be bettered by it.

And shall not this teach vs espe∣cially to procure this shield of Faith, that so we may beat back the fiery darts of the Devil? Ephesians chapter 6. verse. 12. 13.
Shall it not lesson vs, to learn still to live by faith in the Son of God: not having our own righteousness, that so in him we may be more then Conquerors, Romans 8. 34. 35. Ga∣lat. 2. 20.


CHAP. X.

Hereby we are instructed to a cons∣cionable use of the word of God.


FOr, seeing it is not the Letter and sound thereof only that avails, for so (as you have heard) it may be abused by Satan to charming and sorcery, unless we both understand, and receive reverently, yea treasure it up in our hearts, and by faith apply it to our selves, for the Peace of our souls: then surely is it not enough

only to hear, and not understand; not enough to understand only, and not to retain 〈◊〉 memory: nay, not sufficient to remember, unless we believe the same, and so express our Faith, in being transformed there∣by into the same Image from glory to glo∣rye, 2. Cor. 3.
And this may serve to admonish vs, concerning that customary and irreverent taking of the name of God in our mouths, apparent in our ordina∣rye speeches; As oh Lord Iesus &c. which being no less then charms, as it confirms Witches in their dam∣noble Trade, so it exposes vs to be afflicted by them: yea leaves vs to the Judgment of the Lord, even to take that from vs which wee seemed to have, of Hypocrites and formal professors to become open blasphemers and professed Atheists, scorning God, Religion, &c.

CHAP. XI.

Teaches the abuse of the Belief and the Commandments.


AS also wee may here be infor∣med concerning the Abuse of our Belief, as Prayers, which seeing they are repeated without Under∣standing, and so out of their right ordinance and use, are they any better then a Charm? Is it not ra∣there a service unto the Devil then unto God?

May not this admonish Preachers, to apply themselves to the capacity of their people, to speak with understand∣ing, power and evidence of the Spy∣rit, not with the enticing words of mans wisdom, lest they approve themselves no better then Charmers, binding the people faster under the power of Satan, by nouzeling them in Ignorance, Pride, Infidelity, Profane∣ness, &c. 1. Cor. 2.

And the People also may here have their lesson; not to live in ignorance,



but to embrace the light of the Go∣spell, whereby Sedans forgeries are detected, and graciously preue•….
Whereby they may be diverted to the true and holy means, not only for the bodies good, but especi∣ally for the help and salvation of the poor soul.


CHAP. XII.

Teaches to make conscience of sin.


WE are hereby also taught to make conscience of all sin, and to have respect unto all GODS commandments; labouring daily to be renewed by repentance: and so interest our selves daily in the favour of God by Iesus Christ: that seeing afflictions follow sinners, and Satan hath no power over vs, but by ou• corruption, and corruption being sup∣pressed, and daily maistered by re∣pentance and faith in Christ, pre∣uents Sedans power:

Therefore: As it is best to avoid



so, in the next place, if we have sin∣ned, let vs do so no more, lest a worse thing do befall vs, lest the Lord leave vs to Satins power, even to be smite∣ten by evil angels Iohn 5.

CHAP. XIII.

Teaches the deepenesse of Satan.


SEeing the Policy of Satan is no∣tably discovered herein, in hiding his power, and cloking his tyranny and cruelty against the soul, by tampering about these pe•y matters of the body, diverting vs dangerously from the spiritual combat which Satan hath against the soul, to look only to bodily harms, as if wee had no souls, but bodies only, that were in danger. May wee not hence learn the deepenesse of Satan? Doth not this teach, that Satan plays the hypo∣crete, making show to help, when he intends most hurt, and pretending on∣lie to hurt the body, when he intends the hurt of the soul, should not this teach vs less to regard the flesh, and to


have more care for the soul: to arm it especially by prayer and repentance: to watch over our thoughts, &c. secret corruptions, &c. whereas we usually pray for our cattle, which was but a policy of Witches, to make vs believe, that by prayer they were preserved from Witch-craft; whereas indeed that blind and ignorant prayer, was but a colour of Satins help, shroud∣ing his assistance under that pretence of Divine worship. Had wee not now more need to pray for our selves, not crossing and Blessing, &c. as the manner was in Poperie, but rather crossing our corruptions, and morti∣fying our lusts, whereby wee shall best prevent the power of Satan?

CHAP. XIIII.

And have we not hence matter of Trial, both for our private, and generally for the Church of Christ?


YEa certainly; for our selves, we may discern, whether wee have saving


grace, or no. For seeing (as you have heard) Satan and his instruments, may doe wonderful things: There∣fore let not this content vs, though we had even a miraculous faith, seeing to such it shall be said, Depart from me, I know you not, Mat. 7. 22. 23. but rather, let vs get better evidence of saving grace, labouring that our names may be written in Heaven, Luke 10. 17. and taking the true and only path of holiness thereunto, even true faith in Iesus Christ, working by love, and keeping vs to the end, constant and unmovable unto the day of Christ, 1. Cor. 15. verse. vlt.
And seeing devils and false pro∣phets may do such wōderfull things, therefore learn we hence, to discern of GODS truth, and his holy Spouse: namely the true Church, not that that is confirmed by wonders and signs, for such is the synagogue of Antichrist, but that which continues in the Apostles 1 Doctrine, and 2 Fellowship 3 in breaking of Bread and 4 Prayer, Act. 2. 44. 45. 46. &c.


CHAP. XV.

And may not the Saints of God there∣by learn how to behave themselves under afflictions.


NAmely, as not to presume, but that it may befall them: no faith can simply privilege from the cor∣reaction of the Almighty: so if the Lord shall exercise them herewith.

They are 1 to examine the special cause thereof: And so,

2 By Repentance to make their peace with God.

3 Begging instantly the sanctify∣ing of the affliction: And,

4 So the Remouall of it, as may stand with Gods glory.

5 Not measuring, either the favour of God simply, by the remouall thereof; or his anger by the continuance thereof, or their remouall thereby. But comforting themselves, though it take away the miserable life, yet living and dying wee are the Lords: Happy if we go to hey∣uen though in a fiery chariot


CHAP. XVI.

How to prevent Sorcery.


SEeing there is naturally in every Christian the seeds & grounds of such evils, which may draw, as by these degrees, 1 to the approbation of this trade 2 to use though ignorātly, the very spells and charms hereof; 3 to retain under pretence of Charity, these cursed instruments, and so to grow fa∣miliar with them, to conceive well of their prayers, &c. Seeing (I say) by these degrees, & such like; unstable souls may easily be ensnared, and drawn on to this devilish compact: therefore let vs learn also to prevent this fear∣full league. To this end,

Let vs take heed of living in gross and wilful ignorance: And while wee have the light, let vs embrace it cons∣cionably, lest we be given up for our disobedience to these strong delusi∣once.

2 Let vs be thoroughly persuaded of the providence of God, not only in general,

ruling and disposing all things, so that every creature is at his cōmand, not so much as a• hair of our heads can be touched unless the Lord dis∣pose.
3 But specially apprehend we that providence of the Almighty, whereby he hath taken the soul of man into his especial protection; as having elected vs to salvation, before the foundations of the world were laid, and that in Iesus Christ, to the praise of his glorious grace: that so we may neither think our souls to bee at our own dispose: much less may give way unto Sedans suggestion, as to have them disposed at his pleasure: especially seeing he hath no right thereto: nay, is the maine enemy, and murderer thereof from the beginning, chap. 8. of Saint Iohn.

4 And so let vs learn to resign up our souls daily into the hands of [432] our God; by casting our •are upon him: and 1. Pet. 5.

Daily making even with him, by un∣fained repentance.

Submitting daily to his blessed will in all things: and,
Making our requests daily manifest unto him.

Contenting our selves with his graci∣os dispensation: and yet still hungring continually after his glorious presence, Psalm 42. Philip. 1. 23. 24. 2. Corint. 5. 1. 2.

And so committing our selves in well∣doing into the hands of our faithful Cre∣ator, 1. Pet. 4.

5 Make we conscience especially of holy duties, as to do them, 1 of knowledge, 2 with all holy preparati∣on, 3 with all reverence and intention, 4 with all humility and obedience, 5 especially being well persuaded of what we doe, 6 and principally of the acceptance of our persons therein, &c. a∣above the same.

Seeing, as whatsoever is done eg∣norantly or profanely, is no better then a sacrifice to the devil: so it is just with God for this profaning of his ordinance, to yield vs up to strong delusions, even 1 to rest in the works

done, 2 to flatter our selves, that the doing thereof may excuse vs for any gross filthiness: 3 to think that God will be pleased with any Idol service: 4 so to make a mock of God and his ordinan∣ces: 5 and therefore justly to be given up to the power of Satan, to the satisfy∣ing of our lusts: 6 to abuse holy titles and prayers to the effecting hereof: and so by degrees to be brought to this execrable skill; in steed of serving God, to submit wholly to Satan, inter∣taining any colourable and accursed means for the compassing hereof.
And thus of the Uses for Instru∣ction.


CHAP. XVII.

A third general use, is for conso∣lotion.

And that, Either in general to the Church of God.


1 THat Sedans power is limited by the Lord, for the Trial of


the Elect, and purging out of hypo∣critic and profane persons out of the Church; and therefore comfort we our selves in the supreme Power of our God. Tread wee Satan under our feet, as a Captive laid bound to our hands, by our Captain Iesus Christ.
2. Assure we our selves; that the power that is now so curbed, shall once for ever bee destroyed: The Lord shall tread Satan under our feet. Rome. 16. 1. Cor. 15. 54, 55, &e.

Secondly, here is exceeding comfort: That Satan cannot prevail effectually upon any to their condemnation, unless with full consent they yield them∣selves wholly to his subiectiō. And if

Otherwise, he afflict them against their wills, it shall howsoever, turn to their good. Christ will be unto them both in life & death an advantage: and there∣fore, here is matter of exceeding com∣fort unto the Saints, that seeing they are not their own, but are bought with a price, therefore none can take them out of the hands of Christ. If Satan [433] therefore shall move them to close [434]



with him, to give way to him, their answer is ready: They are not their own, let him ask their master leave: they cannot give way to him, he comes too late; they have covenanted with Christ Iesus already; he hath deser∣ued all service at their hands, he is sufficient to requite them, nay he hath provided their wages already, no less then a Kingdom is prepared for them; yea, a Kingdom immortal and undefiled, which fades not.
And if Satan should take advantage of our weakness and corruption, and thereupon challenge vs to belong un∣to him, to yield subjection to him: our answer is ready, We are not our own. It is not I but sin dwells in me: Let Satan therefore take my sin, for that indeed is of him; yea, he shall an∣swear for my infirmity, because his malice provoked it, his cunning al∣lured me to it. As for me, wherein I am now my self, I delight in the Law of God concerning my Inward man: I hate the evil that I do, even worse then the Devil, and I shall desire to be found



in Iesus Christ, that my sin may bee pardoned, and my corrupt Nature healed: That Satins power may bee abolished, and corruption may bee swallowed up of glory.

CHAP. XVIII.

Conclusion to the Wise and Humble Reader.


THus hast thou at length (Dear Christiā) some Part of my poor Observations, concerning this My∣sterie of Witch craft. Wherein for thy better satisfaction, and mine own greater humiliation: As I am not a∣shamed to acknowledge, that which thou can not but discern; [*] That I have borrowed most of my Grounds: For the Proof & Discovery of the Doctrine of Witch-craft, from the Painful and profitable Labours of the Worthies of our Times that have waded before me herein, to confirm the Authori∣tie thereof, against the Atheism of these evil days: that so each might have the perfect honour of their own Pains. So have I thought good,



to ad such experiences and collections of mine own partly gathered out of such Treatises as to this purpose have been published frō time to time tou∣ching the Discovery and Conviction of Witches: And partly digested from particular observation of the hand of God, upon Parties afflicted, that so the Doctrine may be made more pro∣fitable, for the edification of the Church. Wherein I have spared the several Al∣legations, and particular testimonies herein, least the Volume might swell too much, and so prove tedious, & trivial: Referring thee and my self, for war∣rant herein unto those manifold Trea∣tises which have bin frequently pub∣lished to this purpose, and are usually to be had upon the Stationers Stalls. And if any thing over & besides hath been added out of my particular obe∣seruations from such general Passa∣ges, and private Meditations, for the further fastening of this Doctrine up∣on the conscience of the wise Chri∣stian, that he may not dwell in the ge∣nerall speculation thereof to increase
Page 365

curiosity, & so nourish Atheism: but rather may bee provoked to a more holy use of the same, by observing the general Method, and deepness of Satan herein to ensnare unstable souls. As I desire thē herein with me, to mag∣knife the free grace of God; So I en∣treat them in the bowels of Iesus Christ, to make the use thereof. That whereas the speculation of Truth, with∣out conscience of profiting thereby, is the means to deprive vs euē of the know∣ledge thereof (which I take to bee a maine reason, why this Doctrine so generally acknowledged, both by Heathen & Christians is notwithstan∣ding questioned and opposed; because it meets with particular corruptions and crosses carnal, and politic de∣signs) that therefore thou would still conjoin the Spiritual use thereof, with the knowledge of the same. Obser∣uing herein, not so much what Wit∣ches may doe for the hurt of the body, but what snares in the harm of the body they lay for the soul: By withdraw∣ing the mind frō the knowledge and


love of the glorious gospel of Iesus Chris•… an• bewitching the fame, with the love of superstition that would fine, and by this means (as hath bin obser∣ued) is very likely to prevail among vs, observing wisely, that such opposite∣once, as have been made against this manifest Truth, have not bin so much in regard of The Literal Truth it self, as in respect of such Spiritual conse∣quince of more sacred and necessary Truss which depend thereupon. As the power of the Gospel in prevailing a∣against Witchcraft, and so therein con∣founding all formal worship, & Popery. The effect of the Gospel following necessa∣rely upon the doctrine, Namely, The day of Judgment; the punishment of the wic∣ked in hell, &c, The authority of the Ma∣gistrate, in punishing these Hel-hounds, &c. Wherein as thou may observe the wonderful wis•dome of God, in con∣founding the craftiness of Idolaters, that while with one breath they are glad to beg this testimony from hell, for the just∣fying of their hellish idolatry & worcester∣ship, in advancing of their lying mi∣racles;


and so do approve, to this end of this doctrine of Witchcraft, yet even with another; they would fine blow a∣way this truth again, because it makes to the cōfirmation of the Power of the Gospel, as discovering the Iuglings, and treacheries therein: so let this ad∣vice thee, not to rest in the Form of Religion, but to labour to embrace the power thereof; & to make use of these spy∣ritual Observations: to this end. Pro∣mising thee, that as I have endeuou∣red to discover some part of Satins deepness herein, so (if the Lord spare health & liberty) shalt thou be short∣lie furnished with a more plentiful dis∣couery of Satins Delusions against the whole practise of sanctification to settle thy conscience: whereof thou hast for the Information of thy judgment the some [*] formerly delivered unto thee. And so I heartily commend thee to the grace of GOD, which is able to build thee further in the power of Godliness, and so to pre∣sent thee blameless, unto the com∣ming of our Lord Iesus Christ.


Praying thee to posse by such faults of Form and Complement, as my manifold infirmities and want of leisure may give occasion of, and to amend such other of Impression as thou shalt hereby be furnished. And so again; craving thy hearty Prayers for the continuance, both of Pub∣like and Private Liberty, I com∣mend thee unfeignedly to the blessing of our good God, who will for his glory reserve Light in Israel, for the full demolishing of the King∣doom of Antichrist; and for the glo∣rios and more perfect advancement of his holy Son IESVS, in all his Ordinances: To whom be praise and Obedience throughout all the Churches. And in whom I rest.
Thy poor Remembrancer at the Throne of Grace. THO. COOPER
[1] 2 Book.
[2] General reasons moving to this Trea∣tise.
[3] Jam. 2.
[4] Act. 19. 3.
[5] Ioh. 3. 9.
[6] Angle quasi Angeli.
[7] Iosh. 7. 9.
[8] 2. Thess. 2. 11.
[9] Delusions of the time.
[10] Note. Miracles.
[11] Magi∣streets. R. Iacobus.
[12] In Daemo∣nologia.
[13] Ministers.
[14] Mr. Perkins Gifford, North-brooke.
[15] Note.
[16] Lam. 3. 23.
[17] In Che∣shire and Coventry.
[18] Scot.
[19] Eph. 2. 2. Tim. 2. 32.
[20] Essay 28. 45
[21] Hob. 11. 26
[a] And e∣steaming hell as a Bug-beare and put∣ing the e∣will day far from them that they may approach to the seat of Iniqui∣tie. Amos 6. 3.
[23] Ps. 106. 25.
[24] Note.
[25] Psal. 10. 5. Iob 21. 15.
[26] Note.
[27] Rome. 1 25 26.
[28] Note.
[29] Use of cō∣uiction.
[30] Why Wit∣ches are kept poor
[31] Why Sa∣tan forsa∣keth the Witch af∣la that Authority hath sei∣zed on his
[32] Why the bad Witch cannot help what she hath hurt.
[33] Why though the Witch bee punished, yet the af∣fliction is not remo∣ued.
[34] The Saints subject to this cala∣mite, and why.
[35] Witches though they work by poison, yet to bee punished for com∣pact with Satan.
[36] Witches though they lie yet to bee convicted.
[37] Willing lie.
[38] Why they lie.
[39] Witches though they use salves and prayersyet be conui∣cted of sor∣cerie.
[40] Gen. 3.
[41] Discon∣tent in the heart of man.
[42] Curiosity
[43] True Mi∣racles.
[44] Prophets & Apostles how they wrought Miracles.
[45] Christ Ie∣suss how he wrought Miracles.
[46] Concer∣ning Illusi∣once.
[47] Real Works.
[48] 2. Thess. 2. 9.
[49] Deuteronomy. 13. 1
[50] Note.
[51] How to prevent despair.
[52] Object.
[53] Ans.
[54] Note.
[55] Marks of the secret covenant.
[56] And blind charity.
[57] Note.
[58] 1. Tim. 4. 4.
[59] Note.
[60] Note.
[61] Note.
[62] Of the cō∣vining of Wiches into the Church.
[63] In Daemo∣nology.
[64] 1 Appro∣bation of the cove∣nant.
[65] 2 Kissing of back∣parts.
[66] 3 Infor∣motion in the rules and mist∣ries of his Art.
[67] 4 Accoun∣ting for profit.
[68] 5 Renoun∣cing Bop∣tisme.
[69] 6 Sacrifi∣cing of their blood.
[70] 7 Carnal and fami∣liar con∣uersing with them.
[71] Satins po∣licies here∣in 1 in re∣spect of Witches.
[72] Uses here∣in to the Saints. 1 Propha∣ness re∣proved.
[73] 2 Super∣stition cō∣damned.
[74] 3 Private praying in public exercises taxed.
[75] Custom∣rye and for∣mall worcester∣ship repro∣ued.
[76] 2 Instruct on to wall in great fear in GODS house.
[77] 2 To search & subdue the heart to worship God in spirit.
[78] 3 Public worship to be tried by the heart.
[79] To recant vs from the love of the world.
[80] 1 Repro∣ueth pom∣pose & car¦nil deck∣ing of god his house.
[81] 2 Here reproved carnal & merchant∣like teach∣ing. 2. Pet. 2. 2. Ezech. 13.
[82] Note.
[83] Faithful teaching justified.
[84] Mat. 11. 28
[85] Gal. 3. 24.
[86] Desperate estate af secure ones.
[87] Instructiō to profess Christ pub likely. 1. Pet. 3. 15
[88] Damned crew ta∣xed.
[89] State-chri stians con∣damned.
[90] As rather serving the devil then God. Note.
[91] Authority above and cōtrary to the word, reproved.
[92] Absolute subjection to man cō damned.
[93] Divers Idolatries of the world re∣proved.
[94] As the ho∣mage to Satan.
[95] Eec. 3 3 4.
[96] Hypocrits condēned
[97] 2. Pet 2 20 Gala. 6 12
[98] Matth. 23.
[99] Eccle. 10 1
[100] Luck 11. 20
[101] 2. Pet. 2. 22 Iude 12.
[102] Mat. 23. 15
[103] Rome. 12. 1
[104] Mat. 11. 29
[105] 2. Col 3. 12
[106] Phil. 2. 13
[107] Phil. 3.
[108] Phil. 4. 6.
[109] 1. Pet. 5. 7.
[110] 1. Pet. 7. 18
[111] Phil. 3. 13.
[112] 2. Cor. 5. 10
[113] 2. Cor. 5. 17
[114] Jam. 2. 11.
[115] Psal. 119. Hob. 13. 18 Rome. 13. 14.
[116] Lue. 18. 25 2. Cor. 13. 5 Rome. 8.
[117] 2. Cor. 13. 5
[118] Trial of sincerity.
[119] Mat. 4. 5. 6 7
[120] Use of the ceremony of accoun ting with his Prose∣lites.
[121] 1 Satan herein bla sphemou∣sly imitats God, vsur∣peth the offices of Christ.
[122] How the Witches are decay∣ued here∣by. Note.
[123] Conuictiō of idle mi∣nisters hereby.
[124] Essay 56. 12
[125] Note.
[126] Iud. 16. 24.
[127] Stumbling block to the soap∣ration.
[128] Stumbling block to the Fami∣list and Anabap∣test.
[129] Policy in renoun∣cing the outward scale.
[130] 1 In cau∣sing the eg∣norant to rest there in.
[131] To build salvation upon visi∣ble means.
[132] Use of the sacrifice of blood.
[133] To the Witch.
[134] Use to the world of condemn∣nation.
[135] 2 Of de∣ceit; 1 He∣retickes.
[136] Papists herein de∣ceiued.
[137] Practise of Papists.
[138] Use of kiss∣sing Sa∣tans back-parts.
[139] The glory of Popish Religion it shame.
[140] Of Ensue∣bi & suc∣cumbi.
[141] How Sa∣tan may have car∣nil copu∣lotion with Witches, and of the effects thereof.
[142] The Witch how decay∣ued, here∣by.
[143] How o∣theirs are deceived.
[144] God rob∣bed of the glory of his justice.
[145] Occasions of ripen∣ting of the bargain.
[146] How Sa∣than dea∣leth here∣in.
[147] 1 making glorious proffers.
[148] 2 Using strange terrors.
[149] Fearful Appariti∣once.
[150] Note.
[151] Two kinds of Witch∣craft.
[152] How Satā knows things to come, and how far. By aquain tance with the Scrip∣tures.
[153] By skill in Nature.
[154] By his pre sense in most ply∣ces.
[155] By his po∣were in put ting evil purposes into the mind.
[156] By his nimblnes & agility.
[157] By divine revelation.
[158] M. Perkins
[159] How God knows things to come, and how Satan.
[160] Acts 17.
[161] 2. Thess. 2. 11. 12
[162] Note.
[163] Diuinatiō by slight of Birds condēned.
[164] Diuinatiō by entrails of beasts wicked.
[165] Mat. 16. 2. 3.
[166] Predictiōs by what creatures unlawful.
[167] Diuinatiō by Stars unlawful Reason.
[168] Essay 47. 13 14. Dan. 2. 2.
[169] Object. 1.
[170] Answ.
[171] Reasons Why.
[172] Object. 2.
[173] Answ.
[174] Note.
[175] Astrono∣my how far lawful
[176] Grounds uncertain. Reason.
[177] Note.
[178] Object. 3.
[179] Answ.
[180] Use to Stu∣dents.
[181] To all Christians
[182] To Physi∣sitians and Chirurge∣once: no So∣diack nor Signs. Letting of blood by obseruati∣on of the Sign con∣damned.
[183] Observe∣tion of days and times con∣damned.
[184] Observe∣tion of dreams, how law∣full and unlawful.
[185] How to discern between Divine & Diabolical Dreams. 3 kind of dreams. 1 Divine. 2 Natural.
[186] 1 From Comple∣xion.
[187] From con dition of sin.
[188] Diaboli∣call.
[189] How the Sybilles spake of Christ.
[190] Difference between Divine & Diaboli∣call pro∣phecies of Christ.
[191] Note.
[192] Act. 13.
[193] No divine dreams now to be expected. 2. Tim. 3. 17.
[194] Examine∣tion of di∣uination by Lots.
[195] Civil Lots law∣full.
[196] Sporting Lots un∣lawful.
[197] Divining Lots un∣lawful.
[198] Of Satins deceit by answering in the shape of a dead man 1. Sam. 28.
[199] That the apparition unto Saul was Dia∣bolicall, & not real Samuel. Reu. 14. 12.
[200] Answ. to objections
[201] Confute∣tion of walking spirits.
[202] Note whē Miracles used.
[203] Object.
[204] Answ.
[205] Of Satins fore-tel∣ling with∣out means By posses∣zion.
[206] Obsession
[207] Uses hereof.
[208] Differēce between diabolical Trances & the gift of Pro∣phecie.
[209] Of enchāt meant, and it vnlaw∣fullness, I proved by the of∣fects.
[210] Note.
[211] 2 By the word.
[212] Nu. 23. 13.
[213] 3 By the nature of a Charm.
[214] A charm, what.
[215] Words of charms, either obe∣scure & barbarous
[216] Object. Answ.
[217] Or blas∣phemous known charms.
[218] Imagine∣tion reie∣cted.
[219] Infectious looks dis∣claimed.
[220] Objection of Iacobs sheep an∣answered.
[221] 2 Object∣on of the Basilisk and Wolf answered.
[222] Object. 3. Answ.
[223] Object. 4. Of the parties.
[224] Of Scrip∣ture char.
[225] Word how effectual.
[226] Hebr. 4. 2
[227] Note.
[228] Word cō∣monly made a charm.
[229] Chara∣cters, Ima∣ges, &c. cō damned. Rome.
[230] Scratching
[231] Use, to de∣clean these means.
[232] Object. Answ. That we rely upon Physic: therefore why not on these charms?
[233] Note.
[234] Of sorce∣rye by Jug∣ling, it properties.
[235] Eye how deluded.
[236] Gal. 3. 1. 2
[237] That muggling is sorcery.
[238] That juggling is not by optic skill.
[239] Egyptian Enchan∣ters only deluded the eye.
[240] Here are excluded, 1 Luna∣tickes.
[241] 2 Demon∣asks. Two sorts of them. Acts 16.
[242] 3 Super∣stitious persons.
[243] Note.
[244] How Satan baits men and wo∣men di∣uersly to this Trade.
[245] Note.
[246] Note Sa∣tans Poli∣cie in sui∣ting vary∣tie of times with seue∣rall baits.
[247] Oracles ceased.
[248] 2. Cor. 11.
[249] Galat. 3.
[250] 2. Cor. 10. 11. Galat. 5.
[251] Roll. 2. 23.
[252] 1. Cor. 15. 1. Tim. 4. 2
[253] 1. Tim. 4.
[254] Revel. 2.
[255] Reu. 12. 13
[256] Reu. 12. 14
[257] Coloss. 2.
[258] 2. Thess. 2.
[259] Reu el. 8. 7
[260] Verse 8.
[261] 2. Th. 2. 10
[262] Philip. 2.
[263] Iames 2.
[264] Note the ground of Idolatry.
[265] Note.
[266] Bellarm.
[267] Ose. 7.
[268] Plutarch.
[269] 2. Thess. 2. 11. 12.
[270] 1. Reg. 22.
[271] Luke 11.
[272] Scot. & alij
[273] Use. Of the ply ces where Witches haunt,
[274] In what places wit∣che• most abound, and how.
[275] Policy of Satanin li∣meting of his power to Bad Witches.
[276] To good Witch•sor Blessers.
[277] Gods wis∣dome in this diver∣sitie.
[278] In confon̄ ding the vnbelee∣uing world
[279] Repētance excluded, 〈◊〉
[280] In condē ning the Witches.
[281] Witches for the most part women.
[282] Of the bad Witch.
[283] Why Bad Witches use cur∣sing.
[284] Sedans Policy to deceive others.
[285] what good witches are with their po∣were.
[286] Sedans policy herein.
[287] Of the po∣were of bless∣sers, in hey ling and restoring stolen goods, whether it be of God. Proved by the Time.
[288] Secondly, Matter of revelation
[289] Reuelatiō of what.
[290] Thirdly, Manner of revelation
[291] Fourthly, by the end of this re∣uelation.
[292] Fiftly, not warranted by the word.
[293] Note.
[294] Note this.
[295] 6 By the strāge tor∣mints up∣on them.
[296] Note.
[297] Note.
[298] Of the co∣uenant of the Bless∣ser, name∣lie, that she must bee credited.
[299] Note.
[300] Note.
[301] Psal. 50.
[302] Note the policy of Satan in times of knowledge.
[303] Note.
[304] Note Sa∣thans cun∣ning.
[305] Note the ouer-ru∣ling power of God.
[306] Note this.
[307] Note.
[308] 2. Tim. 3. 2 3.
[309] Note.
[310] Note.
[311] Vs• 1.
[312] The good Witch most dāgerous.
[313] Of the po∣were of wit∣ches.
[314] The po∣were of wi∣ches re∣strained, 1 By the Lord. In regard of the E∣lect.
[315] In respect of the wic ked.
[316] Satan doth ma∣ny things without the witch.
[317] Note. Gifford by his skill.
[318] Note.
[319] Note.
[320] Deluding the Wit∣ches sen∣ses.
[321] How Pe∣la came out of the prison, the doors be∣ing shut.
[322] Refutatiō of that cō∣ceit, that the soul returns to the dead body
[323] 3 restraint by compo sition.
[324] 4 restraint by the faith of the Pati∣ants.
[325] Fiftly, restraint by the magistrate.
[326] First quere
[327] Note.
[328] Sedans policy herein.
[329] Second quere.
[330] Gods chi∣drone may be afflic∣ted by
[331] witches are In body. In soul.
[332] Eccl. 9. 1. 2
[333] Why gods children may be chastised by witches
[334] Iob. 13. 15.
[335] Acts 20.
[336] The wic∣ked here∣by stum∣bled.
[337] Note.
[338] Note.
[339] Note Sa∣tans poli∣cie in the affliction of the Saints.
[340] Difference between the godly & the wic∣ked in their af∣flictions. Math. 25.
[341] Psal. 6. 1.
[342] 1 Diffe∣renc in the cause.
[343] Note.
[344] 2 Diffe∣renc in the mea∣sure.
[345] 3 Diffe∣renc in the issue.
[346] Wherein the wit∣ches po∣were is en∣larged.
[347] Actions cōcerning their per∣sons. Speedy motion.
[348] Invisible.
[349] Note.
[350] What the Witch can dotowards others.
[351] Note.
[352] Iob. 1.
[353] Note.
[354] Note.
[355] Possession
[356] Of natu∣rall medi∣cines.
[357] Sedans policy herein.
[358] Of prayers
[359] Note.
[360] Note.
[361] Note.
[362] Note Sa∣anspolicy herein.
[363] Note.
[364] Note.
[365] Note this.
[366] Uses. 1. Satins Triumph.
[367] 2. Gods glory.
[368] Gods wise∣doom here∣in.
[369] Satan the Author of disco∣very.
[370] Note.
[371] By using the Blesser to disco∣very.
[372] Os. 6. 1.
[373] Of lawful means of detection: and first of presump∣tion.
[374] Note.
[375] Proofs hereunto.
[376] Note.
[377] Note Sa∣tans poli∣cie herein
[378] Gods o∣uer-ruling hand here in.
[379] Authority of the ma∣gistrate.
[380] In Demo∣nologia.
[381] Jew.
[382] That Sor∣cery may bee pre∣uented.
[383] Preserve∣tiues for persons.
[384] How to re nounce nature.
[385] How to be in Christ.
[386] Note.
[387] Iude 8.
[388] Gala. 6. 10
[389] Witches will not indurethi▪ usually.
[390] Be liable to his ma∣lice.
[391] First by an holy de∣dication.
[392] Apostolike power herein.
[393] Refuted.
[394] 2 Reason.
[395] 3 Reason.
[396] Mark 16.
[397] 1. Objection from the Jaws an∣answered.
[398] Mat. 12. 27
[399] Acts 19. 13
[400] Objection from the Promise answered.
[401] 3 Object∣on from expire∣ence an∣answered.
[402] 2. Thess. 2. 9.
[403] Colloss. 2. 3. 1. Tim. 4 2.
[404] 2 Proved false by the means employed in them.
[405] Note. An Obie∣ction an∣answered.
[406] Note. The error of Papists.
[407] Relics of Saints rejected.
[408] 2. Reg. 13. 21.
[409] Act. 19. 21. Act. 5. 15.
[410] Sign of the Cross disclaimed herein.
[411] Other Re∣medies re∣jested, as Holy Water, Grains, &c.
[412] Exorcism refuted.
[413] Queer. Concer∣ning the relieving of witches.
[414] Essay. 58.
[415] Tull. No noceant.
[416] Note.
[417] Proved.
[418] Note.
[419] Mans Law reformed herein. Anno 1. Iacobi
[420] First the Atheist.
[421] Zach. 13. 3 4.
[422] Math. 23.
[423] 2. Tim. 2. 23, 24. 2. These. 2.
[424] Gal. 6. 6.
[425] 1. Cor. 1.
[426] Hob. 3. 13.
[427] Hob. 10. 14.
[428] Rome. 5. 2.
[429] Rome. 12.
[430] Phil. 4. 7.
[431] Matt. 6. 33. Psal. 127. 1.
[432] How to re sign up our selves into the hands of God.
[433] 1. Cor. 6.
[434] Iohn 17.
[*] As his Majesties Daemono∣logie, Mr. Perkins, Mr. Gif∣ford, and others.
[*] In the first Part of the Christians daily Sa∣crifice.