WITCHCRAFTS, Strange and Wonderful: Discovering the damnable practises of seven Witches, against the lives of certain Noble Personages, and other of this Kingdom, as shall appear in this lamentable History.

With an approved trial how to find out either Witch, or any Apprentice to Witch-craft.


Imprinted at London, by M. F. for Thomas Lambert at the Horshooe near the Hospital Gate in Smithfield. 1635.




WITCHCRAFTS, Strange and Wonderful.
MY meaning is not to make any contentious Arguments about the discourses, distinction or definition of Witch-craft, the power of Devils, the nature of Spirits, the force of Charms, the secrets of Incantation, and such like; because the Scriptures are full of prohibitions to this purpose, and proclaims death to the presumptuous attempters of the same: Besides, both Princes, (yea, our own learned and most judicious King) Philosophers, Poets, Chronologers, Historiographers, and many worthy Writers, have concurred and concluded in this; that divers impious and facinorous mischiefs have been effectua∣ted through the instruments of the devil, by permission of God, so that the Actors of the same have carried away the opinion of the world, to doe that which they did by Witch-craft; or at least to be esteemed Witches, for bringing such and such things to posse: For howsoever, the learned have charactered delin∣quents in this kind, by titles of sundry sorts, and most signify∣cant attributes; as Pythonissae, dealing with artificial charms; Magi, anciently reputed so, for extraordinary wisdom and knowledge in the secrets of Simples, and Herbs; Chaldei famous for Astronomy, and Astrology; Necromancers, for pra∣ctising to raise dead bodies, and by them to foretell events of the earth; Geomantici, for conversing with Spirits, and using In∣cantations; Genethliaci, for presuming on the calculating of Nativities; or, if you will, assuming the credit of Figure-cast∣ing; Ventriloqui, for speaking with hollow voices, as if they were possessed with Devils; Venefici, for dealing with poison, and either killings, or curing that way: For you must understand, however the Professors aforesaid, practise murder and mis∣chief;



yet many times, they pretend cures and preservation; with many others, carrying the show of great learning and ad∣mired knowledge; yet have they all but one familiar term with us in English, called Witches. As for the conceit of Wise-men, or Wise-women, they are all merely coseners and decay∣verse; so that if they make you believe, that by their means you shall hear of things lost or stolen, it is either done by Confide∣racie, or put off by protraction, to deceive you of your money.
Only (as I said before) there bee certain men and women grown in years, and over-growne with Melancholy and A∣theisme, who out of a malicious disposition against their betters or others thriving by them; but most times from a heart-burn∣ing desire of revenge, having entertained some impression of displeasure, and unkindness, study nothing but mischief and exotic practises of loathsome Arts and Sciences: yet I must needs say, that sometimes the fained reputation of wisdom, cunning, and to be reputed a dangerous & skilful person, hath so prevailed with divers, that they have taken upon them indeed to know more than God ever afforded any creature, and to perform no less than the Creator both of heaven and earth; making you believe with Medea, that they can raise tempests, turn the Sun into blood, pull the Moon out of her Sphere, and sail over the Sea in a cockell shell, according to the Poet:

Flectere si neueam Superos, Acheronta movebo.
If Art doe fail to move the Gods
consent unto my mind:
I will the Devils raise, to doe
what they can in their kind.
But howsoever special persons are transported with an open∣neon of their own worth, & prevailing in this kind, yet by la∣mentable experience, we know too well, what monstrous effects have been produced, even to the horror of the hearers, and dam∣nation, of their own souls, by such kind of people: For as it is in the tale of the envious man, that put out one of his eyes to have his companion lose both; so fares it with them and worse, to give away their souls to be revenged of their adver∣saries


bodies, where in the monstrous subtlety of the Devil is so apparent, that it is wonderful one way to relate, and lemon∣table another way to observe the same. For no sooner shall such motives poison the inward conceit or apprehension of such damnable caitiffes: But then steps forth the Devil, and not only shows them the way, but prescribes the manner of of∣fecting the same, with facility and easiness, assuring that bee himself Will attend them in some familiar shape of Rat, Cat, Toad, Bird, Cricket, &c. yea effectuate whatsoever they shall de∣mand or desire; and for their better assurance and corroboration of their credulity they shall have palpable and forcible touches of sucking, pinching, kissing, closing, colling, and such like. whereupon, without any fear of God or man, knowledge of Christ, hope of redemption, confidence of mercy, or true be∣lief, that there is any other thing to be looked after but this pre∣sent world; according to that Atheistical position of Epicurus:
Ede, bib, lude, post mortem nulla voluptas.
Eat, drink, sport, play, and take thy pleasures rest:
For after death who knows what shall be best.
they admit of those execrable conditions of commutation of souls for the entertaining of the spirits, and so fall to their abominable practises, continuing in the same till God laugh them to scorn, and will by no means suffer them to abuse his holy Name, nor deceive others by their profane lives any lone∣ger: Witness for the general, those infinite Treatises of many of them convinced by Law, and condemned to death, to the fearful example of all carnal and hypocritical Christians: but more especially you may over-looke (if you please) that lear∣ned Discourse of Daemonology, composed in form of a Dia∣logue, by the high and mighty Prince, Iames by the grace of God, King of England, Scotland, France, and Ireland, &c. and printed (as I take it) according to the copy of Edinburgh, 1603. As also a Treatise of Witch-craft made by that learned Mr. Alexander Roberts, Preacher at Kings-Linne in Norfolk, 1615, upon the discovery of the Witchcrafts of Mary Smith, wife of Henry Smith Glover, with her vocal contract between


the Devil and her self, in solemn terms, and such like impo∣stirring filthiness; with many hurts and mischiefs which thereby she procured. As also a certain discovery 1611. made by Iohn Cotta Doctor of Physic in Northampton, of Empe∣ricks, women about sick persons, Quacksalvars, and Fugitives, which seem to work juggling wonders; Surgeons, Apotheca∣ries, practisers by Spells, the true discovery of Witch-craft, es∣pecially in the sick, with many instances of that kind: Wi∣zards, and servants of Physicians, who may be called, ministering helpers: To this he hath added, the Methodian learned decay∣ver, or heretic physician; Astrologers, Ephemerides-masters, Conjecters by urine, Travellers: and last of all, the true Artist his right description and election. As also a Dialogue concer∣ning Witches and Witch-craft, composed by George Gifford, Minister of Gods word in Milton, 1603. wherein the cunning of the Devil is discovered, both concerning the deceiving of Witches, and seducing of others into many great errors: As also an ancient Discourse of the fearful practises of four no∣torious French Witches, with the manner of their strange exe∣cution. As also the several and damnable practises of Mother Sutton of Milton Mills in the County of Bedford, and Mary Sutton her daughter, who were arraigned, condemned and ex∣ecuted for the same. As also, 1612. the wonderful discovery of Witches in Lancashire, being 19. in number, notorious for many informed actions, and convicted before Sir Iames Altham, and Sir Edward Bromley, Barons of the Exchequer: together with the Arraignment and trial of Jennet Preston at York, with her fearful execution for the murdering of Mr. Lister by Witch-craft, with infinite other relations concerning the general conviction of Witches, & their practises, & condemna∣tion of the particular opinion of some men, who suppose there be none at all, or at least, that they doe not personally or truly effect such things as are imputed unto them, and which out of some dangerous impression of Melancholy, Vain glory, or some other diseased operation, they assume to themselves by reason of a former Contract with the Devil. And so much for the certainty of Story, and fearfulness of the truth concerning


the damnable practises of Witches, and cunning of the Devil to deceive them.
But yet because the mind of man may be carried away with many idle conjectures, either that women confessed these things by extremity of torture, or that ancient examples are by this time forgotten (although the particulars are upon record, for the benefit of all posterity:) Or that they were besides them∣selves, or subject to some weak device or other; rather to bring in question the integrity of justice, than to make odious the lives of such horrible offenders: I have presumed to pre∣sent on the Stage of verity, for the good of my Country, and the love of truth, the late woeful Tragedy of the destruction of the Right Honourable the Earl of Rutlands children, who (to his eternal praise) proceeded yet both religiously and charity∣bly against the offenders, leaving their prosecution to the Law, and submitting himself and deplorable case to the providence of God, who afflicts his best servants with punishments, and many times, sends extraordinary vengeance as well on the innocent, as the bad deserver, to manifest his glory: There∣fore by way of Caution I advise thee (gentle Reader) what∣soever thou art, to take heed how thou doest either despise the power of God in his creatures, or vilipend the subtletic and few∣rye of the Devil, as Gods instrument of vengeance, considering that Truth in despite of gaine-sayers will prevail, according to that principle; Magna est veritas & praevalebit.


The Story follows.
AFter the Right Honourable Sir Francis Manners suc∣ceeded his brother in the Earldom of Rutland: and so not only took possession of Beaver Castle, but of all other his Demeans, Lordships, Towns, Man∣nors, Lands, and Revenues appropriate to the same Earldom: he proceeded so honourably in the course of his life, as neither displacing Tenants, discharging Servants, nor denying the ac∣cesse of the poor; but welcoming of strangers, and perfor∣ming



all the duties of a noble Lord, that he fastened as it were unto himself the love and good opinion of the Country; wherein he walked the more cheerfully and remarkably, be∣cause his Honourable Countess marched arm in arm with him in the same race: So that Beaver Castle was a continual Palace of entertainment, and a daily receptacle for all sorts both rich and poor, especially such ancient people as neighbou∣red the same: amongst whom, one Join Flower with her daugh∣ters, Margaret and Phillip, were not only relieved at the first from thence, but quickly entertained as Chair-women, and Margaret admitted as a continual dweller in the Castle, look∣ing both to the Poultry abroad, and the Wash-house within doors: In which life they continued with equal correspon∣dance, till something was discovered to he noble Lady, which concerned the misdemeanour of these women. And although such Honourable persons shall not want of all sorts of people, either to bring them news, tales, reports, or to serve their turn in all Offices whatsoever; so that it may well be said of them, as it is of great Kings and Princes, that they have large hands, wide ears, and piercing sights, to discover the unswept cor∣ners of their remotest confines, to reach even to their farthest borders, and to understand the secrets of their meanest Sub∣jests: yet in this matter, neither were they busie-bodies, flat∣rears, malicious politicians, underminers, nor supplanters one of another good fortune: but went simply to work, as regar∣ding the honour of the Earl and his Lady, and so by degrees gave light to their understanding to apprehend their com∣plaints. First, that Join Flower the mother, was a monstrous malicious woman, full of oaths, curses, and imprecations irre∣ligious and for any thing they saw by her, a plain Atheist: be∣sides, of late days, her very countenance was estranged, her eyes were fiery and hollow, her speech fell and envious, her de∣meanour strange and exotic, and her conversation sequestered; so that the whole course of her life gave great suspicion that she was a notorious Witch: yea, some of her neighbours dared to affirm, that she dealt with familiar spirits, and terrified them all with curses and threatening of revenge, if there were never


so little cause of displeasure and unkindness. Concerning Mar∣garet, that she often resorted from the Castle to her mother, bringing such provision as they thought was unbefitting for a servant to purloin, and coming at such unseasonable hours, that they could not but conjecture some mischief be∣tweene them, and that their extraordinary riot and expenses tended both to rob the Lady, and to maintain certain de∣bashed and base company, which frequented this Join Flowers house the mother, and specially her youngest daughter. Concer∣ning Phillip, that she was lewdly transported with the love of one Thomas Simpson, who presumed to say, that she had bewit∣ched him; for he had no power to leave her, and was (as he supposed) marvelously altered both in mind and body, since her acquainted company. These complaints began many years before either their conviction, or public apprehension: Not∣withstanding, such was the honour of this Earl and his Lady; such was the cunning of this monstrous woman in observation towards them; such was the subtlety of the Devil to bring his purposes to posse: such was the effect of a damnable women's wit and malicious envy, that all things were carried away in the smooth channel of liking and good entertainment on every side, until the Earl by degrees conceived some mislike against her; and so, peradventure estranged himself from that family∣rity and accustomed conferences he was wont to have with her: until one Peak offered her some wrong; against whom she complained, but found that my Lord did not affect her cla∣morose and malicious information: until one Mr. Vavasor a∣bandoned her company, as either suspicious of her lewd life, or distasted with his own misliking of such base and poor Cry∣tures, whom no body loved but the Earls household; until the Countess misconceiving of her daughter Margaret, and dis∣coverig some undecencies both in her life and neglect of her business, discharged her from lying any more in the Castle, yet gave her forty shillings, a bolster, and a mattress of wool; commanding her to go home; until the slackness of her re∣pairing to the Castle, as she was wont, did turn her love and


liking toward this Honourable Earl and his Family, into hate and rancour: whereupon despited to be so neglected, and ex∣probrated by her neighbours for her daughters casting out of doors, and other conceived displeasures, she grew past all shame and womanhood, and many times cursed them all that were the cause of this discontentment, and made her so loath∣some, to her former familiar friends & beneficial acquaintance.
When the Devil perceived the in ficious disposition of this wretch, and that she and her daughters might easily be made instruments to enlarge his kingdom, and be as it were the ex∣ecutioners of his vengeance; not caring whether it lighted up∣on innocents or no, he came more nearer unto them, and in plain terms, to come quickly to the purpose, offered them his service, and that in such a manner as they might easily com∣mand what they pleased: For he would attend you in such pretty forms of Dog, Cat, or Rat, that they should neither be terrified, nor any body else suspicious of the matter. Upon this they agree; and (as it should see me) give away their souls for the service of such Spirits, as he had promised them; which filthy conditions were ratified with abominable kisses, and an odious sacrifice of blood, not leaving out certain charms and conjurations, with which the Devil deceived them, as though nothing could be done without ceremony, and a solemnity of orderly ratification. By this time doth Satan triumph, and go∣eth away satisfied to have caught such fish in the net of his il∣lusions: By this time are those women Devils incarnate, and grow proud again in their cunning and artificial power to doe what mischief they listed: By this time they learn the man∣ner of Incantations, Spells, and Charms: By this time they kill what Cattle they list, and under the covert of flattery and familiar entertainment, keep hidden the stinging Serpent of malice, and a venomous inclination to mischief: By this time is the Earl and his family threatened, and must feel the burden of a terrible tempest, which from these women's devilish de∣vises fell upon him, he neither suspecting nor understanding the same: By this time both himself and his honourable Coun∣tesse are many times subject to sickness and extraordinary convulsions, which they taking as gentle corrections from the hand of God, submit with quietness to his mercy, and study nothing more, then a glorify their Creator in heaven, and bear his crosses on earth.
At last, as malice increased in these damnable women; so his family felt the smart of their revenge and inficious dispose∣tion. For his eldest Son Henry Lord Rosse sickened very strangely, and after a while died: and his next, named Francis Lord Rosse, accordingly, was severely tormented by them and most barbarously and inhumanely tortured by a strange sick∣ness: not long after the Lady Katherine was set upon by their dangerous and devilish practises, and many times in great danger of life; through extreme maladies and unusual fits. Nay (as it should seem, and they afterword confessed) both the Earl and his Countess were brought into their snares as they imagined, and indeed determined to keep them from ha∣ving any more children. Oh unheard of wickenesse and mis∣chievous damnation! Notwithstanding all this did the noble Earl attend his Majesty, both at New-Market before Christ∣mas, and at Christmas at Whitehall; bearing the loss of his children most nobly, and little suspecting that they had miscar∣ried by Witch-craft, or such like inventions of the Devil, un∣till it pleased God to discover the villainous practises of these bad women, and to command the Devil from executing any further vengeance on innocents, but leave them to their shames, and the hands of Justice, that they might not only be confoun∣ded for their villainous practises, but remain as a notorious ex∣ample to all ages of his judgement and fury. Thus were they apprehended about Christmas; and carried to Lincoln Jail, after due examination before sufficient Justices of the Peace, and discreet Magistrates, who wondered at their audacious wickedness; but Join Flower the mother, before conviction (as they say) called for bread and butter, and wished it might never go through her if she were guilty of that whereupon she was examined; so mumbling it in her month, never spake more words after, but fell down and died as she was carried to Lincoln Jail, with an horrible excrutiation of soul and



body, and was buried at Ancestor.
When the Earl heard of their apprehensions, he hasted down with his brother Sir George, and sometimes examining them himself, and sometimes sending them to others; at last left them to the trial of the Law, before the Judges of Assize at Lincoln; and so they were convicted of murder, and executed accordingly, about the 11. of March, to the terror of all the be∣holders, and example of such dissolute and abominable cry∣tures: and because ye shall have both cause to glorify God for this discovery, and occasion to apprehend the strangeness of their lives, and truth of their proceedings: I thought it both meet and convenient to lay open their own Examinations and Evidences against one another, with the manner of their pro∣ceeding and revenges, with other particulars belonging to the true and plain discovery of their villainy and Witch-craft.


The Examination of Anne Baker of Bottesford in the County of Leicester Spinster, taken March 1. 1618. by the right Hono∣rabble Francis Earl of Rutland, Sir George Manners Knight two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace for the County of Lincoln, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, one of his Majesties Justices of the Peace for the County of Leicester a∣foresaid.
She saith, That there are four colours of Planets, Black, Yellow, Greene, and Blew: and that Black is always Death, and that she saw the Blew Planet strike Thomas Fair∣barn, the eldest son unto William Fairebarne, of Bottesford aforesaid by the Pinsold there, within the which time the said William Fairebarne did beat her and brake her head, whereup∣on the said Thomas Fairebarne did mend. And being asked who did send that Planet? answered it was not I.

Further she saith, That she saw a hand appear unto her, and that she heard a voice in the air said unto her, Anne Baker, save thy self, for to morrow thou and thy Master must bee slain: and the next day her Master and she were in a Cart to∣gether; and suddenly she saw a flash of fire, and she said her



prayers, and the fire went away and shortly after a Crow came and picked upon her clothes, and she said her prayers again, and bade the Crow go to whom he was sent and the Crow went unto her Master, and did beat him to death, and she with her prayers recovered him to life; but he was sick a fortnight after, and saith, that if she had not had more knowledge then her Master, both he and she and all the Cattle had been slain.
Being examined concerning a child of Anne Stannidge, which she was suspected to have bewitched to death; saith, the said Anne Stannidge did deliver her childle into her hands, and that she did lay it upon her skirt, but did no harm unto it: And being charged by the mother of the child, that up∣on the burning of the hair and the pairing of the nails of the said child, the said Anne Baker came in and set her down, and for one hours space could speak nothing, confesses she came into the house of the said Anne Stannidge in great pain, but did not know of the burning of the hair and nails of the said child; but said she was so sick that she did not know whither she went.

Being charged that she bewitched Elizabeth Hough, the wife of William Hough to death, for that she angered her in go∣ving her alms of her second bread; confesses that she was angry with her and said she might have given her of her better bread, for she had gone too often on her errands, but more she saith not.

This Examinate confesses that she came to Join Gylles house, her child being sick, and that she entreated this Exa∣minate to look on her child, and to tell her whether it was forespoken or no, and this Examinate said it was forespoken; but when the said child died she cannot tell.

And being asked concerning Nortley carrying of his child home unto his own house, where the said Anne Baker was, she asked him who gave the said child that loaf, he told her Anthony Gill, to whom this Examinate said, he might have had a child of his own if he would have sought in time for it; which words she confessed she did speak.



Being blamed by Henry Mills in this sort; A fire set on you, I have had two or three ill nights: to whom she made answer, you should have let me alone then, which she confesses.
The said Anne Baker, March 2. 1618. confesses before Sa∣muel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, that about 3. years ago, she went into Northamptonshire, and that at her coming back again one Peakes wife and Denis his wife of Belvoyre told her that my young L. Henry was dead, and that there was a glove of the said Lord buried in the ground; and as that glove did rot and wast, so did the liver of the said lord rot and wast.

Further she said, March 3, 1618. before Sir George Manners Knight, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, that she hath a spirit which hath the shape of a white dog, which she cal∣leth her good spirit.

Samuel Fleming test.

The Examination of Join Willimot, taken the 28. of February, in the 16. year of the reign of our Sovereign Lord Iames, over England King, &c. and over Scotland the 52. before A∣lexander Amcots Esquire, one of his Majistise Justices of the Peace of the said Parts and County.
THis Examinat saith, That Join Flower told her that my Lord of Rutland had dealt badly with her, and that they had put away her daughter, and that although she could not have her will of my Lord himself, yet she had spied my Lords Son, and had strict on him to the heart. And she saith, that my Lords son was stricken with a white Spirit, and that she can cure some that send unto her, and that some reward her for her pains, and of some she takes nothing.

She further saith, That upon Friday night last, her Spirit came to her and told her, That there was a bad woman at Dee∣ping who had given her soul to the Devil: and that her said Spirit did then appear unto her in a more ugly for me then it had formerly done, and that it urged her much to give it some∣thing, although it were but a piece of her girdle, and told her that it had taken great pains for her, but she saith that she would give it nothing, and told it that she had sent it to no place, but only to see how my Lord Rosse did, and that her spy∣rit told her, that he should doe well.

The Examination of the said Join Willimot, taken the second day of March, in the year above said, before the said Alexan∣der Amcots.
THis Examinate saith, That she hath a Spirit which she calls Pretty, which was given unto her by William Berry of Langholme in Rutland shire, whom she served three years, and that her Master when he gave it unto her, willed her to open her mouth, and he would blow into her a Fairy which should doe her good; and that shoe opened her mouth; and he did blow into her mouth and presently after his blowing, there came out of her mouth a Spirit, which stood upon the ground in the shape and form of a woman, which Spirit did ask of her her soul, which she then promised unto it, being willed thereunto by by her Master. She further confesses, That she never hurt any body, but did help divers that sent for her, which were stricken or fore-spoken: and that her Spirit came week∣lie to her and would tell her of divers persons which were stric∣ken and fore spoken. And she saith, That the use which she had of the Spirit was to know, how those did which she had undertaken to amend; and that she did help them by certain prayers which she used, and not by her own Spirit: neither did she employ her Spirit in any thing, but only to bring word how those did which she had undertaken to cure.

And she further saith, That her Spirit came unto her this last night (as she thought) in the form of a woman, mumbling, but she could not understand what it said. And being asked whether she were not in a dream or slumber when she thought she saw it, she said no, and that she was as walking as at this present.

Alexander Amoors. Thomas Robinson. test.

The Examination of Joane Willimot of Goodbye in the County of Leicester widow, taken the 17. of March, 1618. by Sir


Henry Hastings Knight, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Di∣vinity, two of his Majesites Justices of the Peace of the said County of Leicester.
SHe saith, That she told one Cooks wife, of Stathorne in the said County Labourer, that Iohn Patchet might have had his child alive, if he would have sought forth for it in time, and if it were not death stricken in her ways, and that Patchets wife had an evil thing within her, which should make an end of her, and that she knew by her girdle.

She saith further, That Gamaliel Greet of Waltham in the said County Shepherd, had a Spirit like a white Mouse put in∣to him, in his swearing; and that if he did look upon any thing with an intent to hurt, it should be hurt, and that he had mark on his left, arm, which was cut away; and that her own Spirit did tell her all this before it went from her.

Further she saith, That Join Flower, Margaret Flower, and she, did meet about a week before Join Flowers apprehension in Blackborrow hill, and went from thence home to the said Join Flowers house and there she saw two Spirits, one like a Rat, and the other like an Owl; and one of them did suck under, her right ear, as she thought: and the said Join told her, that her Spirit did say, she chould neither be hanged nor burnt.

Further, she saith, That the said Ioatie Flower did take up some earth and spit upon it, and did work it with her finger, and put it up into her purse, and said, Though she could not hurt the Lord himself yet she had sped his son, which is dead.

H. Hastings. Samuel Fleming.

The Examination of Ellen Greene of Stathorne in the County of Leicester, taken the 17. of March 1618. by Sir Henry Hast∣ings Knight, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity.
SHe saith, That one Join Willimot of Goodbye came about six years since, to her in the Woulds, and persuaded this Examinate to forsake God, and betake her to the Devil, and she would give her, two Spirits, to which she gave her consent and thereupon the said Join Willimot called two Spirits, one in the likeness of a Kitlin, and the other of a Moldiwarp, the first the said Willmot called Pusse, the other Hiffe, hiffe, and they



presently came to her, and she departing left them with this Ex∣aminate, and they leapt on her shoulder, and the Kitlin sucked un∣der her right ear on her neck, and the Moldiwarp on the left side, in the like place. After they had sucked her, she sent the Kitlin to a Baker of that Town, whose name she remembers not, who had called her Witch and stricken her; and bade her said Spirit go and bewitch him to death: the Moldiwarp she then bade go to Anne Dawse of the same Town, and bewitch her to death, because she had; called this Examinate Witch, whore, jade, &c. and within one fortnight after they both died.
And further this Examinate saith, That she sent both her Spy∣ritz to Stonesby, to one Willison a husband-man, and Robert Will∣lemon a husbandman's son, and bade the Kitlin go to Willison and bewitch him to death, and the Moldiwarp to the other, and bewitch him to death, which they did; and within ten days they died. These four were bewitched while this Examinate dwelt at Waltham aforesaid.

About three years since, this Examinate removed thence to Stathorne, where she now dwelt: upon a difference between the said Willimot and the wife of Iohn Patchet of the said Sty∣thorne Yeoman, she the said Willimot called her this Examinate to go and touch the said Iohn Patchets wife and her child, which she did, touching the said Iohn Patchets wife in her bed, and the child in the Grace-wifes arms, and then sent her said Spirits to bewitch them to death, which they did, and so the woman lay languishing by the space of a month and more, for then she died; the child died the next day after she touched it.

And she further saith, That the said Join Willimot, had a Spirit sucking on her, under the left flank, in the likeness of a little white dog, which this Examinate saith, that she saw the same sucking in Barley-harvest last, being then at the house of the said Join Willimot,

And for her self, this Examinate further saith, That she gave her soul, the Devil, to have these Spirits at her command; for a confirmation whereof, she suffered them to suck her al∣ways as aforesaid, about the Change and full of the Moon.

H. Hastings. Samuel Fleming.

The Examination of Philip Flower, sister of Margaret Flower, and daughters of Join Flower, before Sir William Pelham, and Master Butler, Justices of the Peace, February 4. 1618. Which was brought in at the Assizes as evidence against her sister Margaret.
SHe saith, That her mother and her sister maliced the Earl of Rutland, his Countess, and cheir children, because her sister Margaret was put out of the Ladies service of Laundry, and exempted from other services about the house, whereupon her said sister; by the commandment of her mother, brought from the Castle the right hand glove of the Lord Henry Rosse, which she delivered to her mother; who presently rubbed it on the back of her Spirit Rutterkin, then put it into hot boy∣ling water, afterword she pricked it often, and buried it in the yard, wishing the Lord Rosse might never thrive, and so her sister Margaret continued with her mother, where she often saw the Cat Rutterkin leap on her shoulder, and suck her neck.

She further confessed, that she heard her mother often curse the Earl and his Lady, and thereupon would boyle feathers and blood together, using many Devilish speeches and strange gestures.


The Examination of Margaret Flower.
SHe saith and confesses, That about four or five year since her mother sent her, for the right hand glove of Henry Lord Rosse, afterword that her mother bade her go again into the Castle of Beaver, and bring down the glove or some other thing of Henry Lord Rosse, and she asked what to doe? Her mo∣there replied, to hurt my Lord Rosse: whereupon she brought down a glove, and delivered the same to her mother, who stro∣ked Rutterkin her Cat with it; after it was dipped in hot water, and so pricked it often, after which Henry Lord Rosse fell sick within a week, and was much tormented with the same.

She further faith, That finding a glove about two or three years since of Francis Lord Rosse, on a dunghill, she delive∣red it to her mother, who put it into hot water and after took it out and rubbed it on Rutterkin the Cat, and bad him go up∣wards, and after her mother buried it in the yard, and said a



mischief light on him, but he will mend again.
She further saith, That her mother, and she, and her sister agreed together to bewitch the Earl and his Lady, that they might have no more children: and being demanded the cause of their malice and ill-will; she saith, that about four years since, the Countess (growing into some mislike with her) gave her forty shillings, a bolster, and an attresse, and bade her lie at home, and come no more to dwell at the Castle; which she not only took in ill-part, but grudged at it exceedingly, sue∣ring in her heart to be revenged. After this her mother com∣plained to the Earl against one Peak, who had offred her some wrong, wherein she conceived that the Earl took not her part, as she expected, which dislike with the rest, exasperated her displeasure against him, and so she watched an opportunity to bee revenged: whereupon she took wool out of the said mattress, and a pair of gloves, which were given her by Ma∣ster Vavasor, and put them into warm water, mingling them with some blood, and stirring it together, then she took the wool and gloves out of the water, and rubbed them on the belly of Rutterkin her Cat, saying, the Lord and the Lady should have more children, but it would be long first.

She further confesses, that by her mothers commandment, she brought to her a piece of a handkerchief of the Lady Call∣therein the Earls daughter, and her mother put it into hot wa∣la, and then taking it out, rubbed it on Rutterkin, bidding him fly, and go; whereupon Rutterkin whined and cried Mew: whereupon she said, that Rutterkin had no power over the La∣die Katherine to hurt her.


Another Examination of Philip Flower, before Francis Earl of Rutland, Francis Lord Willoughby of Ersby, Sir George Manners, and Sir William Pelham.
She confesses and saith, That she hath a Spirit sucking on her in the form of a white Rat, which keeps her left breast, and hath so done for three or four years, and concer∣ning the agreement betwixt her Spirit and her self, she con∣fesseth and saith, That when it came first unto her, she gave her



soul to it, and it promised to doe her good, and cause Thomas Simpson to love her, if she would suffer it to suck her, which she agreed unto; and so the last, time it sucked was on Tuesday at night, the 23. of February.
Margaret Flower, at the same time confesses, that she hath two familiar Spirits sucking on her, the one white, the other black spotted; the white sucked under her left breast, and the black spotted within the inward parts of her secrets. When she first entertained them she promised them her soul, and they covenanted to doe all things which she commanded them, &c.

She further saith, That about the 30. of January last past, being Saturday, four Devils appeared unto her in Lincoln Jail, at eleven on twelve a clock at midnight: The one stood at her beds feet, with a black head like an Ape, and spake un∣to her, but what, she cannot well remember, at which she was very angry because he would speak no plainer, or let her un∣derstand his meaning: the other three were Rutterkin, Little Robin, and Spirit; but she never mistrusted them, nor suspected her self till then.

THese Examinations and some others were taken and cha∣rely preserved for the contriving of sufficient evidences against them, and when the Judges of Assize came down to Lincoln about the first wecke of March, being Sir Henry Ho∣bert, Lord chief Justice of the Common-Pleas, and Sir Ed∣ward Bromely, one of the Barons of the Exchequer, they were presented unto them, who not only wondered at the wicked∣ness of these persons, but were amazed at their practises and horrible contracts with the Devil to damn their own souls: And although the Right Honourable Earl had sufficient grief for the loss of his children; yet no doubt it was the greater to consider the manner, and how it pleased God to inflict on him such a fashion of visitation: Besides, as it amazed the hearers to understand the particulars, and the circumstances of this devilish contract was it as wonderful to see their desperate


impenitence, and horrible distraction, according to the rest of that sort, exclaiming against the Devil for deluding them, and now breaking promise with them, when they stood in most need of his help.
Notwithstanding all these aggravations, such was the un∣paralleled magnanimity, wisdom, and patience of this gene∣rous Noble-man, that he urged nothing against them more then their own confessions, and so quietly left them to judicial trial, desiring of God mercy for their souls, and of men cha∣rity to censure them in their condemnation: but God is not mocked, and so gave them over to judgement, nor man so refor∣med, but for the Earls sake, they cursed them to that place which they themselves long before had bargained for.

What now remains (gentle Reader) but for thee to make use of so wonderful a story, and remarkable an accident, out of which, to draw to a conclusion, thou may collect these particulas: First, that God is the supreme Commander of all things, and permits wonderful actions in the World, for the trial of the godly, the punishment of the wicked, and his own glory: of which man shall never attain to know the rea∣son or occasion. Secondly, that the Devil is the mere ser∣vant and agent of God, to prosecute whatsoever he shall com∣mand rather then give leave unto; limiting him yet thus far in his own nature, that he can go no further then the bounds within which he is hedged. Thirdly, that this God hath pu∣nishments, ad correctionem, that is to say, chastisements of the godly, & Ad ruinam, Videlicet, judgements against the wicked, wherein yet man must disclaim any knowledge, and forsake prejudicate opinions. For the very just shall be tried like gold, and no man exempted from castigation whom God doth love. Fourthly, that this Devil, though he bee Gods instrument, yet works altogether by deceit: for as he was a lier from the beginning; so let no man trust him, because he aims at the confusion of all mankind, Fifthly, that the wicked (however they may thrive and prosper for a time) yet in the end are sure to be payed home, either with punishment in this life or in the life to come, or both, as a final reward of monstrous impicty.


Sixthly, that man in his frailty must not presume of prosperity, but prepare a kind of stooping under the hand of God, when it pleases him to strike or punish us. Seventhly, that there is no murmuring nor ripening against God, but quietly to tolerate his inflictings, whenever they chance, of which this worthy Earl is a memorable example to all men and ages. Eightly, that the punishments of the wicked are so many warnings to all irregular sinners to amend their lives, and avoid the judge∣meant to come, by penitence, and newness of life. Ninthly, that though man could bee content to posse over blasphemies and offences against the Statutes of Princes, yet God will over∣take them in their own walks, and pull them back by the sleeve into a slaughter-house, as here you know the evidences against these people took life and power from their own Confessions. Tenthly, and last of all, that private opinion cannot prevail against public censures: for here you see the learned and religious Judges cried out with our Saviour, Ex ore tuo. Therefore though it were so, that neither Witch nor Devil could doe these things, yet Let not a Witch live, saith God, and Let them die (saith the Law of England) that have conversati∣on with spirits, and presume to blaspheme the Name of God with spells and incantations. O then you sons of men, take war∣ning by these examples; and either divert your steps from the broad way of destruction, and irrecoverable gulf of damnati∣on, or with Iosuahs counsel to Ashen, Bless God for the dis∣covery of wickedness, and take thy death patiently, as the pre∣vention of thy future judgement, and saving innocents from punishment, who otherwise may be suspected without a cause.
Vtinam tam facile vera invenire possem, quam false con∣vincere.

The trial of a Witch.
Now as touching the trial and discovery of a Witch (then which these cannot be any president more necessary and be∣hoovefull

for us) there are divers opinions holden; As some by the pricking of a sharpe knife, naule, or other pointed instrument under the stool or seat on which the Witch sits (for thereon she is not able to sit or abide) others by scratching, or drawing of blood from the Witch, by either party that is grieved, or the next of blood to the same, and others by fire; as by burning any relic or principal ornament belonging to the suspected Witch, which shall no sooner bee on fire, but the Witch will presently come running to behold it; and of these, trials have been made both in Hertfordshire, Northamptonshire, and Huntingtonshire; But the onély assured and absolute perfect way to find her out, is to take the Witch or party suspected either to some Mildam, Pond, Lake or deep River, and stripping her to her smock, tie her arms across, only let her legs have free liberty; then fastening arope about her middle which with the help of by standers may be ever ready to save her from drowning (in case she sink) throw her in∣to the water, and if she swim aloft and not sink, then draw her forth, and have some honest and discreet women near, which may presently search her for the secret mark of Witches, as Teats, blood-moales, moist warts, and the like, which found, then the second time (binding her right thumb to her left toe, and her left thumb to her right toe) throw her into the water again (with the assistance of the former rope to save her, if she should chance to sink) and if then she swim again and doe not sink you may most assuredly resolve she is a Witch: and of this many prig∣nant and true proofs have been made, as namely by one Master Anger of Bedfordshire, upon the person of Mary Sutton (a notable Witch) whom he cast into his Mildam at Milton Mills, and found the effect as hath been declared, and for her Witchcraft was there condemned and executed, and as this so I could recite a world of others in the same nature. But the truth is so manifest that it needs no flourish to adorn it.
    FINIS.