MEDEA A TRAGEDY
To my Honoured Friend EDWARD 〈◊〉 Esq Upon his Translation.
THat wi•…e Philosopher, that had designed
To life, the various Passions of the Mind,
Did wronged Medea's Jealousy prefer
To entertain the Roman Theater;
Both to instruct the Soul, and please the Sight,
At once begetting Horror, and Delight.
This Cruelty thou dost once more express
Though in a strange, no less becoming dress:
And her Revenge hast robbed or half its Pride,
To see it self, thus by it self out-vy'd;
That boldest Ages past may say, our Times
Can speak, as well as act, their highest Crimes,
Nor was it enough to doe his Scene this •…ight,
But what thou gav'st to us, with equal light▪
Thou would bestow on him, nor were more just
Unto the Authors Work, then to his Dust;
Thou dost make good his Title, aid his Claim,
Both vindicate his Poëm, and his Name;
So shar'st a double Wreath; for all that We
Unto the Author owe, he owes to thee.
Though change of Tongues stolen praise to some afford,
Thy Version hath not borrowed, but restored.
THO. STANLEY.
View Image - Page [unnumbered]
Page [unnumbered]


TO HIS Honoured Friend Adieu: Sherburn Esq ON SENECA'S MEDEA by him ENGLISHED.
whilst lofty Seneca's Cothurnall Muse
Doth in Medea a new rage infuse,
And in her Breast kindles a greater fire,
Then that in which Creusa did expire,
Gives her a Tongue as killing, as the Steel
She armed her hands with, when her Sons did feel
Her murdering Stabs; that't may in question fall
Which were her tongue, or hand, most Tragical;
And whilst (dear Friend) thy industry presents
His Lotion Scenes in English Ornaments
With equal Grace, and with as high a Rage,
As when presented on the Roman Stage
They did a horror, mixed with pleasure, raise,
He spreads her Infamy, and thou his Praise.
A. F.

Page [unnumbered]


Dramatis Personae.
MEDEA.
CROON.
NUNCIUS,
Nurse to MEDEA.
JASON.
CREUSA.
C•…ORUS.

Mutes.
MARMORUS
PHAR•…TES
the Sons of MEDEA.
GUARDS and SOLDIERS.
The Scene. CORINTH.

The Argument.
MEDEA, having under Pretence of restoring Polios his Youth (as she before had done old Aesons) deceitfully cause his Daughters out of that pious hope, impiously to murder their Father; and so revenged her self of him for the Wrongs he had done her Husband, by the slaughter of his Kinsfolks, and the unjust detention of his King∣dome of Thessaly: By Enchantments avoids their vengeance, and escapes to Corinth; where Jason, flying from Acastus, (who for the Murder of his Father Polios, pursued both him and Medea, with revengeful arms) likewise arrived. Whom Croon King of Corinth courteously entertained,

View Image - Page [unnumbered]
Page [unnumbered]

upon Condition he should put away Medea, and marry his Daughter Creusa. This, Jason out of Necessity consenting to, Croon for the better se∣curitie of his State, enjoins Medea present banish∣meant. She full of Rage, and thirsting for revenge before her departure by Entreaty obtains of Cre∣on one days Respite for the taking of her last fare∣well of her Children. In which space she sends a Crown, and a rich Robe infected with magical Poisons as a Present to the new Bride Creusa: Which being put on, sets her all on flame, consu∣ming likewise her Father Croon coming to her Rescue, and with him his whole Palace. That d•…no, to be further revenged of her Husband, she murders the two Sons she had by him, in his sight; And so mounting her Charrio•… drawn by Dragons, takes her Flight through the Air.

ERRATA.

In the POEM.
PAge 15. l. 8. for reserved no•…d preserved. p. 20. l 3. for Matin•…rs r. Ma∣riner. p. 27. l. 22. for We r. with. p. 39. l. 12. for Swedes r. Suave. ib. l. 22. for these r. those. p. 44. l. 2. for Rays r. raise. p. 47. l. 13. for by r. be.


In the ANNOTATIONS.
Page 55. l. 6•… for Nuptial•… r. Nuptiala, ib. l. 10, for Nuptiare 〈◊〉 r. Nuptiarion Conciliatrin. 16. l. 19 for President chief, r. President and chief. p. 59. l. 28. for Ticket. r. Thicker. p. 62. l. 7. for 〈◊〉 r. 〈◊〉. ib. l. 5. for •…elus r. Pele•…s. and for Andro•…ack r. 〈◊〉. p. 65. l. 26. for Virgilia r. Vergilia. p. 68. •…. l. 4; for lead to r. lead her to. ib. l. 19. forended r rendered. ib. l. 20. for I render, r. which I render. p. 69. l. 13. for the r. they. p. 73. l. 22 for, 〈◊〉 r. 〈◊〉. ib. l. 29. for running r. •…∣ning. p. 74. l. 9. for whose r. those p 67. l. 11. for as r. so. p. 77. l. ult. for justly r. justly. p. 97. l. 1. for India r. I•…dea.


Page 1


MEDEA. A TRAGEDY.

Act the first,

Scene the first.
Enter MEDEA Sola.
YOu (1) Nuptial Powers! and thou (2) Lucina, [*] Head,
And careful Guardian, of the (3) G•…niall Bed.
And (4) thou who Tiphys taught, as with a rein,
To guide the (5) first Ship, through the subdued Maine!
(6) Dread Sovereign of the Seas! thou ever bright
Phoebus! that to the world divid'st thy light.
(7) Three-formed Hecate! that dost display
On nightly mysteries thy conscious Ray
View Image - Page 2
Page 2

And all ye Gods by whom false Iason swore!
Or you, Medea rather should implore,
Dark Chaos! deeps Infernal! damned souls!
The King who Hells sad Monarchy controls,
And [*] Queen with better faith was ravished,
Hear whilst we imprecate! ye (8) Furies dread!
The punishers of guilt; in bloody hands
Grasping your pitchy-blacke, and sulph'ry Brands,
With snaky Curls, and squalid looks appear!
As horrid, at our Nuptials as you were.
Death on the new-made [*] Bride, on Corinths King,
And our own Progeny, untimely bring.
And with some imprecation yet more dire,
'G ainst my false Husband, my fell mind inspire.
Live he, through Towns, despised and friendless rove,
Fear, hatred, poverty, and exile prove,
Wish me his Wife again; and harbour, from
A stranger crave; now a known Guest become.
And, then which, none a greater curse can be,
Children be get he like himself, and me.
See! our Revenge doth with our Wish conspire;
These we have borne: We Plaints in vain expire.
Why rush we not upon our Foes? and there
The Bridal Tapers from the Bearers tear,
Extinguish them, and bury all in Night?
Behold thou this thou Fountain of all light,
Phoebus, (9) the Radiant Author of our Race?
And drive through Crystal skies, thy wonted space?
Run thou not back unto the East? and Day
Remeasur'st? O! to me resign thy sway;

Page 3

Give me the Guidance of those burning Reins
That rule the Coursers with the fiery Mains,
I'd scourge, 'till Corinth whose. (10) small Land divides
Two opposite Seas, and breaks their battering Tides,
Consumed in Flames, should make them way to join.
Nought rests to doe; but that a Nuptial Pine
We bear; and when the holy Prair's, and all
The Rites are done, then, that our victims fall.
Through thine own Bowels reach at thy Revenge
Soul if thou liv'st; all Womanish Fears estrange,
Let thy stout mind, on her old strength presume,
And more then Scythian Ferity assume.
What Ills, once (11) Colchos, now shall Corinth see,
Horrid, unperpetrated cruelty,
Terror to Men and Gods, works in my Mind;
Wounds, Death, [*] spread Funerals of Limbs dis-joyn'd;
Pish! what flight, trivial Ills doe we recount?
Acts of our Virgin hands: Our Rage should mount
Ills more sublime, more horrid Acts of Blood
Suite with our married state, and Motherhood.
Courage then: On, to act thy Tragedy
With all thy Fury; that Posterity
Thy fatal Nuptials, and divorce may find
Equally signal;—Stay; thou rash of mind!
Thy spouse by what means leave thou?—by the same
I once did follow him: All sense of shame
Abandon, and delays as fruitless fly,
▪The Faith by Ills confirmed, by Ills shall dye.
Ex. Medea.
View Image - Page 4
Page 4

CHORVS Of Corinthian Women, Singing an Epithalamium to the Nuptials of Jason and Creusa.
(12) You Gods, whose Empire in the skies,
Or in the tumid Ocean, lies!
These (12) Princely Nuptials bless we pray,
(12) Whilst all due Rites the people pay:
First to those (13) Powers that thunder fling,
And Scepters bear; for offering
A Bull, white without spot, shall dye,
A Heifer that did never try
The servile Yoke, then snow more white,
Thee, (14) O Lucina! doth delight.
(15) To her, who Mars his bloody hands,
Doth ma•…isle in peaceful Bands,
Who strifes of Nations doth compose,
Whose (15) Horn with growing plenty flows,
Shall fall a gent•…er Sacrifice.
(16) And thou who these Solemnities,
And Rites [*] Legitimate dost grace,
And the nights sullen darkness, chase
With thy auspicious hand, come drowned
In Wine, thy (16) Head with Roses crowned.
(17) And thou bright Star, with silver ray,
Fore-runner of the Night, and Day;
That slow to those dost still return
Who with loves mutu'all flames doth burn.

Page 5

Mothers that long, Daughters new wed
Wish thee thy early beams to spread.
Among the (18) Cecropian Dames, the Pride
For Beauty, veil unto the Bride
The Virgins of the (19) Walls Town
Who on (20) Taygetus his Crown
Themselves, (as is their Countries guise)
In (20) manly Pastimes exercise.
And those their limbs in (21) Dirce lave
Or in (22) Alphaeus sacred Wave.
To the (23) Aesonian Youth, for grace
And Form, shall (24) Bacchus self give place,
Who to the Yoke •…ierce Tigers chains,
Or he who o'er the (25) Tripods reigns,
Mild Brother, to the (26) sterner Maid.
The (26) Swan-got Twins fair Laedae laid,
Castor, with Pollux who for blow
Of weighty (27) Sledge, doth all out-goe,
Yield to [*] Aesonides the day.
So, so Celestial powers we pray,
All wives excel the the beauteous Bride,
The Bride-groom posse all men beside.
When with the Virgin Quire [*] she joins
Her look 'bove all with lustre shines.
So when the Sun his Beams displays,
The splendour of the Stars decays.
So fade the (28) Pleïads, scarcely seen,
When with her borrowed shine, night's Queen
Inorbs her Crescent, so to the eye
White blushes with (29) Phaenician Dye.
View Image - Page 6
Page 6

So when day dawnes, Sols ruddy light
Shows to the dew-wet Shepherds sight.
From (30) Phases horrid bed releast,
Wont with unwilling hand, the Breast
To touch of such a barbarous Bride,
With Parents wills first ratified,
Now happy wed a Grecian dame.
Now Youths with Taunts permissive, game
And in loose Rimes chant sportive words,
Rare is this licence against your Lords.
Fair (31) Issue of the God of Wine,
It is time to light thy carved Pine:
(32) With Wine-wet fingers, then put out
The solemn Flame; whilst all the Rout
With mirthful jollity doth ring,
And the (33) Fescennine youths doe •…ing
Their Festive Flouts; she want these Rites,
And grace of Hymeneal l•…ghts,
Who as a fugitive shall wed
Her self unto a foreign Bed.

Act the Second.

Scene the first.
Enter MEDEA, and her NURSE.
MEDEA.
OH! I am slain; the [*] Hymeneall's sound
Hath pierced my Ears, and given my Heart a wound.

Page 7

The Ill I suffer, I scarce yet believe.
And thus could (1) Iason cause Medea grieve?
When from my Father, Country, Crown, and State
H' had brought me, thus, to leave me desolate
In a strange Land? could he our merits slight?
Cruel, and thankless wretch! whose powerful might
Seas rage, he saw, and force of Flames out-went?
Thinks he then all our stock of Mischief spe•…t?
Perplexed and wav'ring, my unquiet Mind
Labours, which way she may her vengeance find.
Would Heavens he had a Brother! Stay; a Wife
He has; let's then attempt against her life,
Full Compensation for all injuries.
If Greek, or Barbarous Towns, (in villainies
Skil'd) have known a mischief, such as thou
Media, yet ne'er knew, or practid'st, now,
Now attempt t•…e like. Let thy resolves find
Co•…ncell from thy own Ills; call to thy mind
The signal (2) Glory of the C•…lchian Crown
Made prize; thy Brothers Limbs dissected, thrown
About the seas; sad Funeral to his sire!
Think on old (3) Polios boiling o'er the Fire.
How oft have we spilt guile•…less blood? yet n're
Did we act Ills in rage; Loves rage we bear.
Alas what could Iason doe, at the dispose
Of a Superior power?—His Breast oppose
To a murdering sword.—Ah! better words afford
My passionate Griefs; rather, so Fates accord,
May he live still my Iason as before.
If not, yet may he live; mindful of poor
View Image - Page 8
Page 8

Medea, to whose love his life's a debt.
The fault was wholly Croons: by whose great
O're-ruling power, our marriage-bands he brake;
He did the Mother from her Children take,
He cancelled our strict-plighted faith; He, he.
The Butt of our deserved vengeance be.
I'll bury his proud Palace in a high
Heap of Ashes, whilst the black Clouds that fly
Of Flame-driv'n smoke, (4) Malea shall amaze,
Which storme-beat Vessels puts to long delays.
NVRSE.
For love of Heaven be silent, and restrain
Passion to recluse sorrow; "who sustain
"Wrongs that oppress 'em, with a quiet 〈◊〉
"And unmoved thoughts, know best the way to find
"How to repay 'em. Anger kills, concealed;
"Hates miss of their revenge, when once revealed.
MEDEA.
"That griefs but small which Council can o're-sway;
I'll meet all opposites.
NVRSE.
Thy •…ury stay
Dear Daughter; scarce a still retiredness
Secure thee can, open Attempts much less.
MEDEA.
"Fortune the Valiant fears; but tramples on
"The coward soul.

Page 9

NVRSE.
"Then resolute•…
"Is good, when the Attempt is possible.
MEDEA.
"What
"To courage, and a mind resolved, is not?
NVRSE.
"No hope a Remedy to a lost affair
"Doth show.
MEDEA.
"Who nought can hope, should nought despair.

NVRSE.
(5) The Colchi'ans hate thee, in thy spouse no Faith
There is; of all thy vast store, Fortune hath
Not left thee ought.
MEDEA.
Yes, here's Medea still,
Here Seas, Earth, Fire, Gods, Thunder, what can kill
As well as Steel behold.
NURSE.
Th'incensed Ire
Of the King yet's to be feared.
View Image - Page 10
Page 10

MEDEA.
What was our [*] Sire?

NVRSE.
Fear thou not force of Arms?

MEDEA.
Not though from Earth
They sprung, and took from thence their hostile birth.
NVRSE.
Thou'lt suffer death.

MEDEA.
It is that we wish.

NVRSE.
Be led
At my request to fly.
MEDEA.
That I ever fled
I grieve; Medea fly?
NVRSE.
Think what thou art,
A Mother.

Page 11

MEDEA.
Yes, by whom, you see.

NVRSE.
To part
Hence doubt thou?
MEDEA.
No; we'll go, but first revenge

NVRSE.
Th'avenger will pursue.

MEDEA.
It will be strange
If we not fin de him obstacles.
NVRSE.
Suppress
These Menaces rash Woman, and redress
Thy pertinacious thoughts; with time comply.
MEDEA.
Fortune my Estate may ravish from me, my
Mind she ne'er can rob me of. Hark! I hear
The Palace doors to creak; who is it draws near?
It is Croon the proud Tyrant, Croon, high,
Elated with (2) Pelasgian Royalty.
View Image - Page 12
Page 12


Scene the Second.
Enter CROON.
Yet does [*] Aeeta's noxious issue stay
Within our Confines? not yet gone away?
Something she machinates, whom all doe brand
For Noted Fraud, and a nofarious hand.
Whom spares she? whom, suffers secure to rest?
T'extirpate by the sword this worst of Pest
We once resolved; the Entreaties of our Son-
In-law prevailed; and our Concession
Got, that she might live; on terms she quit
Our Realms from future fears: with looks that threat,
And truculent Aspect, she gins to bend
This way her steps, as though she did intend
Some speech with us; Our Guard there! Hence, Away
With her, nor suffer her to speak; to obey
A Kings Command, once let her learn; with speed
Dispatch, and send the Monster gone.
MEDEA.
What deed?
What Crime of ours mulct you by flight?
CROON.
A Cause
The [*] Innocent soul demands!
MEDEA.
"If by the Laws

Page 13

"You govern, before you Judge first understand.
"If by your will alone you rule, command,
CROON.
Dispute not; it is our pleasure, right, or wrong.
And thou shalt suffer't.
MEDEA.
"Unjust S•…epters, long
"Continue not.
CROON.
Away; to Colchos, hic
To your own home again.
MEDEA.
Most willingly,
So he that brought me thence, return with me.
CROON.
Your Wishes come too late to our Decree,

MEDEA.
"Who ought decrees, nor hears both sides discussed,
"Does but unjustly, though his Doom be just.
CROON.
Old Polios rued for lending thee an Ear,
But speak; and your egregious Cause let's hear.
View Image - Page 14
Page 14

MEDEA.
[*] How ill appeased is the w•…ath of Kings.
And what a pride in royal Fancy springs,
Their first-fix'd Resolutions to pursue,
From our own Princely thoughts w'have learned too true,
For though with sad Calamity oppressed,
Scorned, suppliant, our-cast, every way distressed
W'are now, we once, in Royal State did shine,
And from bright Sol drew our Illustrious line.
What (5) Phases in his winding Arms doth close,
What here behind the (6) Scythian Pontus shows,
Where the salt Waves grow fresh with floud-mixt stream•…,
All that extent of Land, whose borders, hems
The silver (7) Thermodon; in trampled Fields,
Where (7) widowed Troops display their luned shields,
My Father with Imperial Sceptre sways.
In joys of Royalty, and happy days
There flourished we; Our Marriage-bed those sought
Whom now, we seek: But Fortune, light as thought,
From us those Sceptred Glories having rent,
Hath now exposed us to sad Banishment.
"In Crowns confide! whose wealth Chance doth transfer
"At pleasure; But this yet, what no day ever
"Can take from them, Kings, great, and glorious have,
"To help the afflicted, and the suppliant save.
This only from our Colchian Realms, away
We brought, that by our favour, we can say
The flower of Greece and Princely Ornament,
Achaia's chiefest strength, the high descent

Page 15

Of Gods, were saved from death. Orpheus whose song
Charms stony Rocks, and draws the Woods along
Is our free gift; that Led•…'s Twins survive
Our double bounty is; by us doe live
The sons of Bores, (8) Lynceus, he whose sight
Extends cross Pontus its emitted light,
And all the (9) Minyae, by our Favour, were
Reserved from ruin: not to mention here
The [*] Chief of all those Chiefs; whose safety, we
Reckon no debt, to none imputed bee.
To you the rest, to us, this one we brought
Away: Inveigh your worst then▪ count each fault
Of ours, of all this only can you blame,
Argos return: yet if our Virgin shame,
And love of Father, had not stooped to love
Of Iason, (whom before these we did approve)
The Chief of Greece had perished, and your son
To ruin, on Bulls flaming breaths had run.
Fortune our Cause my oppress, (though undeserved)
Yet shall we ne'er repent to have preserved
The off-spring of so many Kings: With you,
Of all our Crimes is the reward, and due.
Condemn us so you please; but first the Crime
Declare: W' are guilty; true: So were, what time
Croon thy (10) knees we touched, and did implore
The (10) Faith of thy protecting hand. No more
Ask we at present, but some place obscure,
Where we our selves and sorrows may immure:
If from this City banished by your doom,
Within your Realms, afford us yet a room.
View Image - Page 16
Page 16

CROON.
That we with rigour rule not, nor with high
Pride, trample upon humbled misery,
Sufficient Proof we seem •…n this to have shown
By such a [*] Son-in-law electing; One
Exiled, afflicted, terrified with fears.
For thee the young [*] Acastus, who now wears
Thessalia's Crown, seeks with death-threatning i•…e,
T'avenge the Murder of his aged Sire,
And his dissected Parents Limbs; when by
Thy false suggestions led, too credulously,
The perpetration of so foul a fact,
The pious sisters impiously did act.
Wave thine, and Iason can his Cause maintain,
No guilt of blood his guiltless hands did stain
Nor touch of wicked steel; far from thy dirè
Counsels, he still innocuous did retire.
But thou vile Machanatrix of all Ills,
Whom wom'anish spleen, and manly courage, steeles
For all attempts, regardless of thy fame,
Be gone, and purge our Realms of such a shame.
Hence your letiferous simples take; from fear
Free our perplexed subjects, and else-where
With thy Complaints vex Heaven.
MEDEA.
To be gone
Compelly'us? or Ship, or a Companion

Page 17

Afford; why us alone, command you hence?
Alone we came not; or if your pretence
Be fear of War, expel us both; why two
Equally guilty, thus distinguish you?
To [*] him, not us fell Polios; add our flight,
Our Kingdom's Prize, our Sire deserted quite,
Our Brother peece-meale torn, or if beside
A Crime there be he teach to his new Bride
It is his, not ours: and though so often pressed
To ill, it was ne'er for our own interest.
CROON.
It is fit th'wert gone; why spin'st thou out delays
In talk?
MEDEA.
Vouchsafe thy parting Suppliant prays,
This last request; Let not the Mothers fault
Be as a Guilt upon her Children brought.
CROON.
Go, go, we'll guard these with a Fathers care.

MEDEA.
By these more happy Nuptials; by thy fair
Future hopes, and by this thy regal State,
Which Chance with various change doth agitate
We pray; afford some small time ever we go,
Upon our dearest Children to bestow
Our last, and perhaps dying kisses.
View Image - Page 18
Page 18

CROON.
Time,
Only for fraud thou ask.
MEDEA.
What fraud, or Crime
Can in so short a space be feared?
CROON.
"None can
"For mischief be too short.
MEDEA.
Deny thou than
So small a moment to a Wretches tears?
CROON.
Though thy entreaties by our ominous fears
Opposed are; one day thou shalt obtain.
MEDEA.
Thy Grant's too great; revoke some part again;
And hence we speed.
CROON.
If before to morrows Sun
Advance the cheerful day, thou art not gone,

Page 19

Thou surely dy'st. But us the Time now calls
To prayers, and Rights of Hymens Festivals.
Exeunt.
CHORVS.
(11) Rash man was he, with ships frail Beak
Did first the trech'rous Billows break,
And his own Native Soil declined
Durst trust his life to trustless wind.
The Seas with doubtful Course divide,
And in a slender (12) Plank confide,
Drawn to too thin dimensions far
Twixt life and death too poor a Bar:
Celestial Signs were yet unknown
And of those lights use was there none
Whose Fires bespangle all the Skies.
Nor yet were Pilots grown so wise
To shun the stormy (13) Hyads threat,
The Olenian (13) Goats bright star, not yet;
(14) Nor those which that old lazy Swain
By•…tes drives, the Northern Wane.
Bores and Zepbyre, yet to none
By names distinguished were known,
Typhys did first on Seas display
His Sails; and taught the Winds to obey
New Laws: Now before a quartering Gale
His Course to run with all his Sail.
Now bring the Tack aboard; now fast
His lowered Yards, bind to the Mast.
View Image - Page 20
Page 20

His Canvas then unfurled again,
Unto the Winds to hoes amain,
When the too greedy Mariners
Calls for a Gust; and th'red Drabler
Unto th'inlarged Sail made fast,
Trembles with the impulsive blast.
The Candid Age of Innocence,
Our Fathers saw; free from all sense
Of Fraud; Then in secured rest
Each man on his own ground, lived blessed
With length of Years; with little rich,
Nor of more wealth, then that with which
His Native Soil was stored, could tell.
The (15) Pine of Thessaly, the well-
Divided World's Partitions b•…oak,
And cause Seas feel th'Oares lashing stroke;
And the secluded Ocean made
Part of our fears: yet sadly paid
For this so bold a wickedness;
Through tedious dangers, and distress
Long driven: when those (16) Rocks that bound
The Entrance to the Pontick Sound,
Tilting with Impetuous shocks,
Did Echo like loud Thunder knocks.
Twixt whom, the Sea crush't, mounts, and laves
The Stars and Clouds with foaming waves.
Bold Tiphys then grew pale for fear
His faltering hands forgot to steer;
Silent was Orpheus and his Lute;
And (17) Argos self was then struck mute,

Page 21

What? when the (18) Maid whose waste surrounds
A Cincture of fierce ravening Hounds
Did all their Jaws at once extend!
What man with horror did not bend
At such a sight? who without fear
Could that still-barking Monster hear?
What? when with Magic of their strain
Those * dire Plagues charm, d the (19) Ausounian Maine![18]
'Till on his (20) Lyre Pierian, played
Orpheus, and even the (21) Siren made
Wont ships to captive while she sings
Follow the Music of his strings.
What was the Purchase of so bold
A Voyage? but a Fleece of Gold
And (21) greater Mischief then the Sea,
Medea: fit the Freight to be
Of the first Ship. The passive Maine
Now yields, and doth all Laws sustain.
Nor the famed Argos, by the hand
Of (22) Pallas built, by Heroes Manned,
Doth now alone complain she is s•…rc't
To Sea; each petty Boat's now cours't
About the Deep; no Boundure stands,
New Walls by Towns in foreign Lands
Are raised; the pervious World, in't's old
Place, leaves nothing. Indians the cold
(23) Araxis drink, (24) Albis, and (24) Rhine
The Persians. The (25) Age shall come, in fine
Of many years, wherein the Maine
M'unclose the universal Chain;
View Image - Page 22
Page 22

More land may, and new worlds be found,
Nor (25) Thule be Earths farthest Bound.

Act the Third.

Scene the first.
Enter NURSE, following MEDEA running frantic over the Stage.
NVRSE.
AH whither rapt with eager speed away!
Hold, Daughter! curb thy rage; thy Fury stay.
As when some frantic Fro, whom Bacc•…us mads,
Trots her wilde Entheou•… Dance, and raving, gads
On (1) Pindus snowy top, or (1) Nysa's Crown:
So here, now there, she hurries up and down,
As if with a (2) Lymphatic Rage possessed.
Her looks attracting fervour from her breast.
Cries, O you Gods! then weeps, now smiles again;
And all the Symptoms of a troubled brain
Discovers; Doubts, threatens, with anger boils,
Laments, and sighs; Oh! to what Center toils
This weight of cares? these threats where will she wreak?
Or where will this high Sea of fury break?
Which like an Inundation swells: No low
Nor vulgaire mischief she intends; to out-goe
Her self she seeks: we know •…ull well, her old
Distempers signs; some Eminently-bold,

Page 23

Horridly-impious Act, she plots: 't appears
In her fell looks; The Gods deceive our fears.

Scene the second.
Enter MEDEA.
If wretch, a Rule thou would prescribe thy Hates,
Thy rash love imitate; Tamely (ye Fates▪)
And unrevenged shall we these Nuptials bear?
Shall this day idly posse? sought with such care
And toil! with so much difficulty gained!
Whilst selfe-poiz'd Earth in midst of Heav'n's sustained,
And the bright Orbs their stated Changes run,
Whilst Sands no number know; whilst day the Sun,
And night the Stars attend; whilst about the Pole
The (3) undrencht Arctos turns, and Rivers roll
Into the Maine; our deadly, vengeful Ire
Shall ne'er have end, but grow, and still rise higher.
What wild Beasts Savageness? what chafed waves
Engulfed in (4) Scylla's, and (4) Charibdy's Caves?
What Aetna (under which (5) Typhaeus lies
Expiring Flames) our rage shall equalise?
Nor rapid streams, nor Torrents heady course,
Nor wrathful Euxine Seas, By (6) Corus force
Vexed into storms, nor flames blown up by wind,
Can stop th'incensed Fury of my mind.
I'll down with all.—Croon his seares did move
(Forsooth) and King Acastus Arms;—"True love
"Can never stoop to fear of any?—But,
O'er powered he was enforced to yield:—Could not
View Image - Page 24
Page 24

He yet, to his poor Wife have bid adieu!
My life! stout though he be, he feared this too.
Yet sure, being Croons son, he might a while
Have respited the time for our Exile.
But one short day, to take my last farewell
Of both my children!—Yet, though short, it is well.
Much, much shall these few hours produce; that fact
Which all days else shall ring of, this, shall act.
We will invade the Gods, and shake the frame
Of the whole Universe.
NVRSE.
Thy mind reclaim,
Thy Heart with griefs disturbed pacify.
MEDEA.
"No thought of rest, 'till with our own, we see
"A general Ruin; perish if we shall,
"Perish all else; We will not singly fall.
NURSE.
See how great Dangers, thy Attempt•… oppose!
"Against potent Opposites none safely goes.

Page 25


Scene the third.
Enter IASON.
Still cruel Fates! Fortune severe alike!
Equally bad, or if she spare or strike:
So often Heaven, hath for our desperate Woes,
Found Remedies more desperate then those.
Would we the Faith, to our Wives merits due,
Have kept? We must have died. Death to escheue,
We must be faithless. Not to this inclined
By abject fear, but a Paternal mind.
For in their Parents ruin, our poor Race
Would be involved. O Justice! if a Place
In Heaven thou hast, by thy white Throne I swear,
The Children overcame their Sire. Nor ever
Shall I think other, but that [*] she, (though fierce
Of heart, and beyond all Reclaim perverse,)
Her Childrens lives, would before my bed desire.
With Prayers we were resolved t'accoast her Ire,
But see! sh'hath spied us; Ill the sight she brooks:
Disdain and passion, printed in her looks.
MEDEA.
We fly, Iason! we fly; For us to change
Seats, is not new; The Cause is new and strange.
For thee we used; but now from thee we fly.
Whom thus from your Aboads enforce you hic?
View Image - Page 26
Page 26

To whom dost send us? shall we Phases flood
Colchos and our Sires Realms, or fields with blood
Of slaughtered Brother stained, go seek? what lands,
What Seas must we find out at thy commands?
The Pontick Straits? through which that Princely Train
We safe brought home; when through th'incensed Maine
And dangerous Symplegades, we fled[20]
With thee, now turned Adulterer to our bed?
Shall we for small (7) Iolcos make? or steer
Unto Thessalian (8) Tempe? what ways ever
To thee we opened against our selves we closed.
Then whither send ye us? to what Lands exposed?
To Exile an Exiled wretch is sent,
And yet no place assigned for banishment.
Yet go we must, so to command seems sit
To Croons [*] Son-in law; And we submit.
Inflict on us the worst of cruelties,
We have deserved. Let Croon exercise
The bloudiest Tortures Tyranny ever bred,
To plague a [*] Strumpet to his daughters bed.
Load us with Irons; and shut us from all light
In a dark Dungeon of eternal night:
Yet shall we suffer less then we deserve.
Ungrateful wretch! think, (if thy heart will serve
To let thee) of the Flame-breath'd Bulls; the Field
Which Armies of Arme-bearing Foes did yield.
When at our sole Command, those Earth-borne Bands,
Mutu'ally fell by their selfe-slaughtering Hands.
To these; add the Phryxaean Rams rich prize,
And steeples Dragon charmed; whose wakeful eyes

Page 27

Obeyed sleeps unknown Power: our Brother slain,
Mischief, with mischiefs re-inforc'd again.
Fraud-blinded Daughters urged to divide
Their Parents Limbs, unto new life denied.
And our own Kingdoms, for a strangers Crown
Deserted; by what hopes so ever you own
Of your dear children; by the certainty
Of thy new-fix't abodes; and victory
O're-vanquish't Monsters; by these hands of ours,
Ne'er spared for thee t'imploy their utmost Powers.
By fore-past Fears; Heavens, (9) Seas, (the Witnesses
Of our wronged Nuptials) pity our distress.
And in thy happy state, to us that crave
Render that comfort thou would wish to have.
Of all the wealth by (9) Scythians rapt away
From Sun-scorch'd Dwellers of rich India,
To o narrow an Exchequer, for whose store
Our whole Court seems; with whose superf•…uous Oar
W'adorne the Woods and Groves; no part brought wee
But our slain Brothers limbs; And those, on thee
Impended; Country, Father, Brother, Shame.
We this Dowre wed; parting, restore the same.
IASON.
When wrathful Croon sought thy life to have,
Moved by our tears for death, he Exile gave
MEDEA.
We Exile thought a Punishment; but now
We find, that, for a [*] favour you allow.
View Image - Page 28
Page 28

IASON.
Whilst yet thou may, get thee from hence convay'd;
"The Wrath of Kings is heavy.
MEDEA.
You persuade
This to endear you in Creusa's love;
You seek a hated [*] Strumpet to remove▪
IASON.
Objects Medea love?

MEDEA.
And Treachery
And Murder too.
IASON.
What Crime is there, against me
Thou can object, deserves so foul a blame?
MEDEA.
All that wee ever did.

IASON.
Then it is your Aim
T'involve us in the guilt of your misdeeds,

Page 29

MEDEA.
Those, those are thine. "He to whose gain succeeds
"The Ill, is the Ills Author. Though our Fame
All should oppose, thou ought defend the same,
And say w'are blameless: "He should guiltless be
"In thy Repute, is guilty made, for thee.
IASON.
"That life's a burden, which enjoyed, brings shame.

MEDEA.
That life discharge, enjoyed with loss of Fame.

IASON.
Rather appease thy wrath incensed B reast,
For thy poor Childrens sakes;
MEDEA.
No, We detest,
Abjure the thought; What? shall Creus•… live
And Brothers to Medea's Children give?
IASON.
It will be an honour when our Exiled race,
A Queen, shall with her kindred Issue, grace.
View Image - Page 30
Page 30

MEDEA.
Come never so unfortunate a day
To the already wretched, with Allay
Of baser blood, to mix our noble line.
(10) Phoebus with Sisyphus his Nephews join.
IASON.
Why seekst thou ruin on us both to bring?
Let me entreat thee to depart.
MEDEA.
The[*] King
Could yet vouchsafe to hear us speak.
IASON.
Declare
What's in my power to doe for thee.
MEDEA.
Me! dare
Any mischief.
IASON.
On either hand, see here
Two potent Kings.
DEA.
Then those, a greater fear

Page 31

Behold▪ Medea: let us exercise
Our Powers, and Iason be the Victors prize.
IASON.
Wearied with Miseries, I yield; Forbear;
So often tried, the turn of Fortune fear.
MEDEA.
Mistress of Fortune we have ever been.

IASON.
Acastus there; here Croons nearer spleen
Threatens destruction.
MEDEA.
Void thou either Harms:
Not against thy Father-i'-law to rise in Arms,
Or stain with kinreds blood thy Innocence,
Medea wills. Guiltless with her fly hence.
IASON.
Who shall oppose, if they their powers combine,
And against us with united Forces join.
MEDEA.
Add Colchians too; Aeëta General;
Scythians with Gracious join; we'll foil them all.
View Image - Page 32
Page 32

IASON.
I potent Scepters dread:

MEDEA.
Rather take heed
Y'affect them not.
IASON.
Left this our Conference breed
Suspect, here let's cut short our long discourse.
MEDEA.
Now Jove o'er all the Heavens thy Thunder force,
Stretch forth thy Hand, thy vengeful Flames prepare,
And from cracked Clouds the world with horror scare.
Nor with deliberate aim level thy throw,
Take him, or me: which of us each, the blow
Shall sink, will guilty fall; if at us cast,
Thy Thunder cannot miss.
IASON.
Resume at last
More sober thoughts, language more mild; if ought
In Croons Court, in Exile may be thought
Easeful to thee, ask, and the asked for have.
MEDEA.
Thou know we can, and use with scorn to wave

Page 33

The wealth of Kings; we only wish we might
Our Children have Companions in our flight;
That in their bosoms we our tears may shed.
More Sons thou may expect from thy new Bed.
IASON.
I must confess me willing to comply
With thy desires; forbid by Pie•…y.
Nor could I suffer this, though Croons Ire
Should force me to it. For this alone, desire
I life; of all my cares the only •…as,
Sooner I could want Breath, Limbs, Light, then these.
MEDEA.
Loves he his children so! it is well; we have it,
Aside, to her self.

Now we know where to wound him.—We hope yet
We may our last words in their mindful Breasts
Implant; embrace; seems this a just request?
This too, wee with our latest speech entreat,
What our rash grief hath uttered, youl'd forget▪
And a more favourable Memory
Of us retain; all Passions buried be.
IASON.
All, ell's forgot by us; and here we pray
Thou may the Fervour of thy mind allay,
And gentle curb unto thy passions give.
"Patience is Miseries best lenitiv•….
Exit Iason.
View Image - Page 34
Page 34

MEDEA.
Gon! is it even so? hast thou forgotten me?
And all my Merits? slipped from thy Mem'ry?
No; we will ne'er slip thence. Now mind thy Part;
Summon together all thy strength and Art.
It is thy best use of Ills, to think there's none.
Scarce will there opportunity be shown
T'effect our Treachery. Our Plots they fear.
Run then a Course from all suspicion clear.
Begin, Medea! to thy task prepare;
And what thou can, and what thou can not, dare.
O faithful Nurse! whom Chance, with us hath made
Partner in woes; our wretched Counsels aide.
A Robe we have, our Kingdoms Ornament;
As Pledge of his Ethereal descent,
By Sol t'Aeeta given. A Carquanet
With Gold enchac'd, and a rich Coroner
Set with bright Gems; These to the new-wed Bride
My Sons shall bear; first, with dire Tinctures died.
Invoke we Hecate; our sad Rites frame
The Altars strew; now crack this Roof in flame.
E•…aunt.
CHORVS
Nor force of Flames, nor strength of Wind,
Nor Thunder we such terror find•…
As a [*] divorced Wife; set on fire
With hate, and Ardor of desire.

Page 35

Not Cloudy Austere where he powers
Forth Deluges of Winter showers,
When (11) Ester like a Torrent rolled,
Breaks Bridges down, runs uncontrolled.
Not (12) Rhodanus with rapid Course
Where he resisting Seas doth force,
Nor (13) Haemus, when the Suns hot Beams
In mid Spring, thaw his Snows to streams.
Love spurred with Passion's blind, disdains
All rule, nor brooks imposed reins.
Fearless of death; covers upon
Drawn Swords with obvious steps to run.
Pardon you Gods! we Pardon sue,
Safe may he live, did Seas subdue.
Yet the Deeps Monarch storms, his Power
Next Jove's, should stoop t'a Conqueror.
Bold Phaeton, that durst aspire
To rule the Chariot of his Sire,
Whilst from prescribed Bounds he strayed,
He felt the Flames his rashness made.
None suffered in a known way; tread
In that safe Path where others lead.
Nor violate the sacred Bands
Imposed by Natures sacred hands.
Who ever those noble Planks, which made
Bold Argos, touched; spoiled of his shade
The sacred Grove which (14) Pelion Crowned;
Past [*] floating Rocks in the profound;
Did through so many perils wade
Of the vast deep; and Anchor weighed
View Image - Page 36
Page 36

From off a Barb'rous Coast, possessed
Of foreign Gold; for home addressed,
With sad event the Breach he rued
Of the Seas Rites; with plagues pursued
And justice of the angry Maine▪
Tiphys, who first the Ocean
Tamed, to an (15) unskilful Pilot, left
His charge, on foreign Shores bereft
Of life (16) far from his Native Land.
(16) Amongst unknown Ghosts lies tomb'd in sand.
(17) He from the vocal Muse that springs,
At sound of whose Harmonious strings,
The rapid streams their motions ceased,
Their Murmurs the rude winds suppressed,
While Birds their own Notes left, to his Song
Fled listening, and Woods danced along;
His Limbs o'er Thracian Acres spread
Dragged unto (18) Haebrus streaming Head,
To Styx descended, known before;
And Tart'•…us, to return no more.
(18) Alcides Bores Issue slew;
(19) He who could various shapes endue,
From (19) Neptune who derives his breath,
From Hercules received his death.
(20) He too, when Seas and Earth h' had Crowned
With Peace, and forced the Stygian Sound,
Alive on Iota's Pyre reposed,
His Limbs to cruel Flames exposed.
While mingled Goares Infection, sent
By h's Wife, his flesh with Tortures rent:

Page 37

A Boar (21) Ancaeus life ore-threw,
(22) His Uncles Meleager slew,
And by the vengeful hand doth fall
Of his enraged Mother; All
Deserved; What Crime, did expiate
That tender (23) Lads untimely Fate?
The (23) Boy by Hercules unfound.
In Waves of secure Waters drowned.
Go now bold Spirits; plow again
With like feared destiny the Maine.

Act the Fourth,

Scene the first.
Enter NURSE Sola.
Horror my trembling soul invades, some great
Pernicious Mischief, present Ill does threat.
How vast a Rage her swelling grief dilates!
Its own Incendiary! Integrates
Her lapsed powers! with fury o•…t possessed
I've seen her charge the * Gods, attempt to wrest
Heaven with her Charms: some more prodigious Act
Then these yet works she; for as hence she packed
With frighted steps, and her dire Conclave entered
Forth all her Spells she powers, and what to have ventured
On her self long feared, there broaches; a▪ whole Hell
Of Ills let's loose, close kept in that dark Cell.
View Image - Page 38
Page 38

And whilst she with sinister hand, prepares
The Infaustous work, sh'invokes with Magic Prayers
What ever Poisons (1) Lybya's scalding sands
Create; what Taurus, (where cold Winter stands
Clothed with perpetual Snow,) in's frozen veins
Congeals; and every Monster. At whose strains
Craule scaly Multitudes from under ground,
And as officious Agents wait her round.
Thither an aged Serpent trails along
His o're-growne Bulk, and darts his forked tongue;
Seeking on whom to inflict a death; at sound
Of her dire Charms, his poys'nous length in round
And complicated Orbs he folds: She cries
Poor are the Ills, and base the Weapons, rise
From this low earth; I'll from the Heavens fetch down
Poison's to serve my turn; This instant Crown
With Ills worthy thy self; Now, now's the time
Something to act above a vulgar crime.
Hither descend (3) the Snake that seems to lye
Like a huge Torrent rolling cross the •…kie,
In whose Immense folds either (3) Bear is tied,
(3) The great, to Achaians, less, Sydonians, guide.
His griping hands let (4) O phiuchus loose,
And the squeezed venom of his Snake infuse.
Hither repair, drawn by these Charms of ours,
(5) Python that durst assail two Heavenly Powers.
(6) Hydra, with all the Serpents were subdued
By Hercules in their own deaths renewed.
And thou the Colchians wakeful [*] Spy, whose eyes
In drowsy sleep our Spells did first surprise.

Page 39

Then, (having, called of Serpents all the kinds,)
She in one Mass, all pernicious simples binds.
What ever on Impervious (7) Eryx grows,
What (8) Caucasus (where sit continual Snows)
Stained with Promethian blood, brings forth; what ever
The Warlike (9) Medes in charged Quivers bear.
What flying (10) Parthians use; with what the points
Of his keen shafts the wealthy (11) Arab noints.
〈◊〉 Juices which the Noble (12) Swedes inclined
Near the cold North, in Groves (13) Hercynian find.
What ever the Earth in the procreating Spring
Bege•…s, or in the Winter forth doth bring,
When rigid Cold in Ice hath all things bound,
And Forests of their Summers pride uncrown'd.
Those Herbs which bloom with a pestiferous flower,
She culls; the Juice endued with baneful power
From roots distorted wrings. From Pindus some,
Some Drugs from high Aemonian (14) Ethos come.
These tender sprigs as on (15) Pangaeus top
They grew, did her bloud-cankred Sickle crop.
These (16) Tygris n•…urish'd; whose swift streams oppress
His gulphy Channel; these [*] Danubius, these
The famed (17) Hydaspes▪ whose warm Current, Eaves
Dry India's Sands with Gem-inriched Waves.
And (18) Baits whence its land a name did get,
Whose languid streams against Seas Hesperian beat.
These felt the Edge of knife at Birth of day,
In dead of drowsy Night, this slender spray
Was from his stalk cut down. This ripened Blade
She did with her charme-tainted Nail invade.
View Image - Page 40
Page 40

The deadly weeds she takes, and forth doth squeeze
Her Serpents putrid Venom, and with these
She mixes Birds of (19) inauspicious flight,
The Heart of the solitary Owl; th'hoarce Night
Ravens Entrails whilst alive exsected.
These the Pernicious Artist, thus selected,
In parcels puts; flames ravenous force these hold,
Those the Icy chillness of benumbing Cold.
Words to her Poisons adds of no less dread
Then poisons are; See! she begins to tread
Her frantic Dance, her Rites Infernal makes;
Now charms; the world at her first Accents quakes.

Scene the second.
Enter MEDEA.
You silent People of the shades below!
Ye Gods infernal! and dark (20) Chaos; Ioe!
To you we bow; Thou gloomy Mansion
Where [*] sooty (21) Dis resides! seated upon
The lowest Hell; the den of squalid death!
Wee you invoke: Quit your Abodes beneath,
Leave your old task of torturing souls; and pack
To the new Nuptials. From his wheeling Rack
Released; a while rest let (22) Ixion have,
And (23) Tantalus sup free the fleeting Wave.
Whilst Croon feels more horrid pains then these.
Let (24) Sisyphus his Torments find no ease.

Page 41

(25) You who in perforated Urns, still vain
Successelesse toil deludes; cease from your pain
And thither high; this day your hands requires.
And thou the Empress of Nocturnal fires!
To these our Rites invoked, come. Put on
Thy worst of Looks, and with more * Fronts then one[31]
Menacing, appearo! with loose hairs thus displayed,
(As thine becomes) W'have searched each secret shade,
With naked feet: called from dry clouds the Rain
And to it's Bottom forced the suffering Maine.
Whilst old Oceanus affrighted, hides
Within his waves recess his vanquished tides.
Heavens Laws inverted, shown the World the light
Of Sun, and Stars, at once; the day and night.
(26) Drenched both the Bears in the forbidden deep.
And changed the course the constant Seasons keep.
Clothed Earth in Summer with a Spring new borne,
Made Ceres see, a Winter crop of Corn.
Swift Phases turn his streams back to their source,
And Ester in seven mouths divided, force
His waters to a stand; his Spring confined.
And made floods roar, seas swell, without a wind.
An ancient Wood, whose leaves its Couvert made,
At our commanding voice hath lost his shade.
Phoebus his course day left at noon, forbears;
And when we 〈◊〉 the stars drop from their Spheres.
It is time drea 〈◊〉, at these Rites of thine
Thou present were; To thee this Wreath of (27) nine-
Imbraided Serpents wrought with bloody hand
We offer. •…o! his (28) biform'd •…imbes durst band
View Image - Page 42
Page 42

Against Jove's high Empire, bold (28) Typhaeus! this
The poys'nous blood of treacherous (29) Nessus is.
Given by himself as he did life expire.
These Ashes raked we from the [*] O•…tean Pyre,
Dryp't with Herculea•… Foam. See, in this hand,
The pious Sisters, impious Mothers Brand
Vengeful [*] Althaea! these Plumes found wee cast
By rapefull (29) Harpies, as by (29) Zeres chased.
These are the wings the wounded (30) Stymphal'd bore,
Slain by the Shafts dipped in Lernaean gore.
(31) The Altars sound! and our own Tripods, moved
B'our fav'ring Goddess, show these Rites approved.
See (32) Trivia's whirling Carre! not as when bright,
With a full Orb illuminating night,
She drives; but such, when with a lured face,
Vex't with (33) Thessalian Charms, a nearer race
To Earth she runs: So shine thy tristful light
With pallid Ray, and with strange (34) Horror, fright
The world: whilst thy extreme•… to ease, O great
(35) Dyctynna! rich, (36) Chorinthian Brass is beat.
Upon this Bloud-stain'd (37) Turf our sacrifice
To thee we make; this Funeral (38) Torch, supplies
Nocturnal fires; snatched from the flaming Pile.
(39) To thee our Head we toss, with neck bowed, while
Our Charms wee utter; our hairs loosely spread
A Fillet binds, as when we morn the dead.
To thee this [*] withered bough thus wave we round,
Brought from the dark shades near the Stygian Sound.

Page 43

To thee with bared breast true [*] Maenad-like
This [*] rusty knife thus in our Arms we strike.
Our streaming blood down to the Altar flows;
Inure your selves my hands such wounds t'impose,
And learn the dearest Blood of thine to shed.
The [*] hallowed Flood our pierced veins have bled.
If thou complain'st thou art too often pressed
B'our Orisons, pardon a forced request.
That thus O (40) Parses we thy Powers implore,
The Cause is still the same as heretofore,
Stili Iason: now infect the Brides Attire;
That when put on, the close, Serpentine fire,
Her inmost marrow may consume within
The yellow gold, couched lies the flame unseen.
(41) Which he who rues his Heavenly Theft, with still
Renewed Liver gave; and taught the skill
How to conceal its force: Mulciber did
Give us these fires, in subtle Sulphur hid.
This living flash of fatal lightning, we
From Phaeton our Cousin took; here be
The gifts the triple-shap'd (42) Chimera gave.
The Flames breathed from the Bulls scorched throats we have,
Which mixed with (43) Medusa's Gall doe serve,
So charged, the secret Mischief to conserve.
With Power these poisons Hecate inspire,
And guard the hidden seeds of the close fire
Lurks in these gifts, let them deceive the Test
Of sight and touch; whilst in her veins, and breast
The subtle fervour spreads; and doth calcine
Her melting Limbs, in smoke let her Bones pine,
View Image - Page 44
Page 44

And her inflamed tresses, beam-like blaze
And dim the light her Nuptial Tapers rays.
(44)—Our Prayers are heard; (44) thrice Hence•… barked aloud
Thrice with sad flames, her sacred fires she showed.
Ell's finished. Nurse! my Children call, that they
Unto Creusa may these gifts convey.
Go Children; issue of a haplesse mother;
Go; by your prayers, and Presents, seek another
Less kind, to appease. Back hither quickly hie,
That we your last embraces may enjoy.
CHORVS.
Wither runs bloody (45) Maenas drove
By the fierce fury of her love?
What Mischief with wild rage prepares?
Wrath with rough frowns her looks impairs;
Shaking her head she proudly jets,
And menaces the [*] King with threats.
Who her an Exile would suppose?
The flushing red in her cheeks glowes,
Now paleness thence the red doth chase,
No colour long her changing face
Retains; now here she runs, now there,
Distracted as her passions bear.
As Tigress of her young bereft,
With wilde speed prosecutes the theft
Through (47) Ganges Forest; so, nor rage
Medea knows, nor love t'asswage.

Page 45

Now wrath and love their Powers conjoin;
What will she doe? to which incline?
When from Pelasgian lands, away
Will she her cursed self convey?
And by her wished absence, clear
The [*] Kings, and Kingdom of their fear?
Now Phoebus drive with winged pace,
Nor curbing Reins retard thy Race.
In her dark shades let friendly night,
Now hide the lustre of the light.
And Hesperus Night's usher steep
The feared day in the Western Deep.

Act the Fifth.

Scene the first.
NUNCIUS and CHORUS.
NUNCIVS.
Ell's lost! our Kingdoms Glory sunk in fire;
The [*] Princely Daughter, and her [*] Royal Sir•…
In blended Ashes lye.
CHORVS.
Say how betrayed?

NVNCIVS.
Even by those usual Trains for Kings are laid,
By Gifts.
View Image - Page 46
Page 46

CHORUS.
In those what treachery could be?

NNNCIVS.
Nay, that's my wonder: nor though the fact I see,
Can my belief receive't for possible.
CHORVS.
The manner of so strange a ruin tell.

NUNCIVS.
As it was [*] commanded, the devouring flame,
Assaults each part of the Palace: the whole frame
In pieces falls; and now we fear the Town.
CHORVS.
The raging flames with throwne-on waters drown

NVNCIVS.
Even that astonishment, and wonder breeds
In this disaster; Fire on Water feeds;
The more suppressed, the more it burns; and grows
By that which to extinguish we impose.

Page 47


Scene the second.
Enter MEDEA, and NVRSE.
NVRSE.
Fly; fly Medea! quickly hence be gon,
And seek with speed some other Region.
MEDEA.
How should we fly?—No; were we fled, to see
This day, we would return again: to be
Spectatresse of these gallant Nuptials.—Heart!
Dost stop? pursue thy happy rage; this part
Of thy enjoyed Revenge, what is it?—Distraught!
Dost thou yet love? is widowed Iason, thought
Sufficient? Work Medea! work; invent
Some strange, unusual kind of punishment.
Hence with all right, expulsed shame be gone.
"That's poor revenge which by weak hands is done:
By all intent on wrath; bravely excite
Thy drooping thoughts; and with more eager might
Rouse up the old sparks of rage, hid in thy breast.
What we have done already, to the rest
W' intend, may be called piety: now ply't;
Let the world know how vulgar, and how slight
Our former Ills were, but as Preludes, to
Ensuing rage. What could such rude hands doe
View Image - Page 48
Page 48

Might be termed great? or by a Girl be shown?
W'are now Medea; our Invention grown,
As our Ills multiplied; Now, now w'are joyed
We lopped our Brothers head, and did divide
His bleeding Limbs; that we our Father spoiled
Of his Crowns sacred Treasure; and beguiled
Daughters to take up particidiall Arms.
Seek matter for thy Fury, for all harms
That brings a hand prepared.—Wrath whither, oh!
Transported art thou? Against what treacherous Foe
Intend these weapons?—Something my fierce mind,
But what I know not, hath within designed,
Nor darest' her self disclos't.—Fool I have been
Too fondly rash. Oh that I could have seen
Some Children of the Strumpet got!—What's thine
By Iason, think Creusa bore. This kind
Of vengeance likes; and likes deservedly.
The height of Ills, with a resolve as high
Attempt: you, we did once our Children call,
For your Sires Crimes a satisfaction fall.
—Horror invades my heart; an Icy cold
Stiffens my limbs; my breast pants; wrath, his hold
Hath left; and there, (a wive's sterne Passions quit,)
A Mothers soft restored affections sit.
We in our Childrens blood our hands •…mbrue?
Ah! better thoughts distracted griefs pursue!
Far be it from Medea yet, to act
So soul a Sin, or so abhorred a fact.
What Crime, poor wretches! shall they suffer for?
—Their Father's Crime enough; and greater far

Page 49

Their Mother; let 'em dye; they're none of mine.
Hold! they're thine own: then perish because thine.
Alas! they're innocent; without a touch
Of Guilt? it is true; My Brother too was such.
Why stagger'st thou my soul? or why doe tears
Water my Cheeks? whilst Passion this way bears
My wav'ring mind, now that way love divides;
Tossed in an eddy of uncertain Tides.
As when the Winds wage war the passive Waves
Are counter-rock't, the Sea a Neuter, ra•…es.
So floats my wracked heart, now Wrath wins the field,
Now Piety; to Piety wrath yield.
Oh you the only joy, and comfort left
Of our sad state; Now, of all else berest;
Come hither, my dear Children! and with mine
Your little Arms in close Embraces join.
May in your lives your Father yet delight,
Whilst I your Mother may.—Exile, and flight
Enforce me on: Strait from my Arms with cries
Will they be torn; then perish from all joys
Of Father as of Mother. Grief again
Renews; My hate boils high; my heard brain
It's old Rage fires, and stirs my abhorred hand
Up to new mischief: On then, thy command
We follow. Would an issue from my womb
As numerous as (1) Niobes, had come.
And twice seven Children had from us derived
Their Births: our Barrenness hath even deprived
Our Vengeance; yet w' have two: enough to expire
As victims to our Brother, and our Sir e▪
View Image - Page 50
Page 50

—Whither does this dire Troop of Furies bend?[43]
Whom seek they? where their fiery strokes intend?
Against whom shake they their bloody Brands? Snake, wound
In lashing whips with horrid hisses sound.
Whom does Megaera with infestive Post
Pursue? what yet unknown, dismembered Ghost,
Is this appears? 't's my Brothers; come to crave
Vengeance of us: And vengeance shalt thou have.
But first, fix all these fire-brands in my eyes;
Tear, burn; my Breast to furies open lies.
Hence these dread Ministers of vengeance send,
And bid these Spirits satisfied descend.
Leave me to my self, Brother; to employ
This Arm in thy revenge, that did destroy
Thy life; [*] thus with this (2) victim we appease
Thy injured Ghost.—What sudden sounds are these?
What means this none?—[*] Arms against my life are bent,
[*] Up to the Houses Top force thy Ascent:
Finish thy Murder there. Come you with me
My small Companion: whilst this body wee
Convey along. Now, soul! thy task intend.
Nor thy brave Mischief unregarded end
In secret; show it the People; let them stand
The amazed Spectators of thy Tragic hand.

Page 51


Scene the Third.
Enter IASON cum Armatis.
IASON.
You whom the Murder of your Prince, doth move
With sad Resentments of a loyal love,
The Author of that execrable deed
Help to surprise; hither with weapons speed
You armed Cohorts; here this House surround,
And lay the Fabric level with the ground.
MEDEA.
I, now our Sceptor, Brother, Sire, again
W'enjoy; and Colchians their rich spoil retain.
Our Kingdom, and our lost Virginity
Are now restored: O long cross Destiny
At length grown kind! O festive Nuptials! On;
Give thy Revenge, as Crime, perfection.
Dispatch while thy hand's in.—Why thus delays
My soul? what doubts?—Our potent wrath decays;
Now of the Fact a shameful penitent.
What have I done? Wretch! such though I repent.
I've don't. An ample joy my unwilling Heart
Seizes: it grows upon me. Yet this part
Of Vengeance wanted, he not being here,
Nor a spectator; without whom, what ever
W'have done, is lost.
View Image - Page 52
Page 52

IASON.
See where she sits! upon
Yon Houses shelving Top; hither some one
Bring burning Brands, and Fire impose on Fire;
That scorched in her own Flames she may expire.
MEDEA.
Doe; raise your Sons a Funeral Pile; your Bride,
And Father-i-law, our kindness did provide
With Rites of Sepulture; his Doom this Son
Hath felt, the like shall this, whilst thou look on.
IASON.
By all the Gods, by our Community
Of flight, and Bed, which, un•…nforced I
Ne'er violated: spare this child; O spare
Me this: the Crime is mine, then let me share
The punishment; and let deserved death,
Seize on my guilty Head, and loathed Breath.
MEDEA.
No; where thou would not have it; where thou dost feel
Most sense of sorrow will we force our steel.
Go now, thou proud Insulter, go, and Wed
Young Virgins now, and leave a Mother's Bed,

Page 53

IASON.
Let one suffice to have suffered.

MEDEA.
If our Rage
One death, or single slaughter could assuage
We none had sought; and though both dye, yet that
To our wrongs is not revenge commensurate.
If in our womb a Pledge there be, even there
This steel shall searched, and thence the Embrion tear.
IASON.
Dispatch thy Villainy; no more we pray:
Nor longer now, our punishment delay.
MEDEA.
Haste not my Grief; but leisurely employ
Thy slow revenge. This daye's our own; w' enjoy
The accepted time.
IASON.
Death, cruel! we implore.

MEDEA.
Thou pity crav'st. So; [*] now ell's done; nor more
Had we (O sorrow) as a Sacrifice
To offer thee. Erect thy humid Eyes
View Image - Page 54
Page 54

Ungrateful Iason; here look up; dost know
Thy Wife? thus use we to escape: Heavens show
Our flight clear way; See both our Dragons here!
Who freely stoop their scaly necks to bear
Their willing Yoke. [*] Now take your Sons; whilst I
On wi•…general Wheels through airy Regions fly.
IASON.
(4) Go, mount the skies; and by thy flight declare,
(If thou unpunished go) no Gods there are.
    FINIS.


Page 55


ANNOTATIONS Upon the first ACT.
(1) YOu Nuptial Powers] The Nuptial Powers were these; Iupiter and Iuno, whom they sty∣led Iovem Adultum, and Iunonem Adultam, in regard (as conceived) that it was not lawful for any one to marry, nisi Adulta Aetate, as likewise 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, and 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, i. e. Nuptials by the Greeks, because (as Sca∣ledger says) Humane vitae Perpetuatio Nuptiarum Merito perficeretur. The Perpetuation of humane life was the effect or benefit of Marriage. The Goddess Suada Nup∣tiare Consiliatrix, Diana President of Household Affairs, called at these Ceremonies Cinxia (a Title likewise given to Iuno) of the Girdle or Zone of the Bride, which being unloosed by the Bridegroom, was her Votive or Offering; Genius, so called quasi Generic Nostri Parens, Neptune cal∣led Genethliacus, Ut cui liberorum quaerendorum Cura Venus Geriturae Domino, Hymen (of whom in the Annotations upon the following Chorus) And (to omit divers others ad∣ded to the Catalogue by the Romans)

(2) Lucina, Guardian of the Genial bed, &c.] Being the same with Diana, called likewise Illythia, President, chief Assistant at Women's Labours, in regard that her Mo∣there was delivered of her without Pain, the Etymology of Lucina, Ovid would thus derive.

—De dit haec tibi Nominee lucus,
Vel quia Principium tu dea lucis habes.
View Image - Page 56
Page 56

Goddess thy name from Groves derived should bee,
Or, cause the Prime of Light's derived from thee.
(3) The Genial bed was called as Scaliger supposes à Generando, or as others, quia in honorem Genii sternebatur, it was by the Greeks called 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 in regard it was co∣veered over with a veil. Vet. Scale. Poet. l. 3.

(4) And thou who Typhis taught] Pallas or Minerva, of whom see more in the Annotations upon the Chorus to the Second Act.

Typhis was the Pilot of Argos in the Expedition to Colchos, instructed by Minerva, de quo vide ibid.

(5) To guide the first Ship, &c.] Argos, (according to the Poets) the first Ship that ever sailed the Seas, and by them placed in the Heavens, as the Merit of her Adven∣tures. Embellished with 26 glittering Stars.

—Tum nobilis Ergo
In coelum sub dust mari, quote prime cucurrit
Emeritum magnis mundum tenet act Procellis,
Servando Dea facta deos.—
Manil. l. 1.
—The noble Argos to the Skies
From Sea translated, which she first did plow,
Once tossed with mighty storms, in heav'n's fixed now,
And Deiefy'd, for saving Deieties.
(6) Dread Sovereign of the Seas] Neptune; who by the Greeks is sometimes called 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 of the noise and roaring of the Seas, resembling the bellowing of a Bull, which Beast they usually offered to him in Sacrifice.



Page 57

(7) Three-formed Hecate] Hecate the same with the Moon, so called (as some conceive) for that she was ap∣poised with Hecatombs, or that she caused the unburied to wander a hundred years, or for the multiplicity of her In∣dowments and virtues, or for the Centuple increase of Fruit, a Secret by her taught, and received from her Mother; said to be triple-form'd, in regard in Heaven she is called Luna, on Earth Diana, in Hell Proserpina; See more in the Annotations upon the fourth Act, Scene the second.
(8) Ye Furies dread, &c.] The Furies are fained to be the Daughters of Erebus and Night, in number three, their Names Megera, Tysiphone, and Alecto, the Hellish Execu∣tioners of Celestial vengeance, armed with flaming Brands, and Snaky Whips. The hairs of their heads being Ser∣pents (if wee believe the Poets) the first that so described them (as Pausanias in Atticis witnesses,) was the Poet Aeschylus.

(9) Phoebus the Radiant Author of our Race] Aeeta the Father of Medea was the Son of Apollo, begotten on Persa the Daughter of Neptune: Who was Medeas Mo∣there is not certainly known: Since they reckon Iayia, Ephire, Hecate, Eurylite, Near, Asterodia and Antiope, the most general received is Hecate. Vet. School. Apolon. in l. 3.

(10) Corynth whose small Land, &c.] Corynth was sea∣ted upon the Neck of Land or Isthmos, joining Peloponessus to Achaia, parting the Egaean and Ionian Seas. What Me∣dea here threatens in her fury, was once really attempted to have been effected as Pausanias writes, by design, viz. to have made an Island of Peloponessus: The Isthmos being but the Remainder of the unfinished Work, left unperfe∣cted in that death prevented the undertaker; The Marks and Tracts of the design being apparent in his days.

View Image - Page 58
Page 58

(11) The Ills once Colchos, &c.] Colchos (now called Mengrelia) was the supposed Country of Medea, bounded on the North with part of Sarmatia, on the West with so much of the Euxine Sea, as extends from the River Corax, to the mouth of the River Phases, on the South with part of Cappadocia, and on the East with Iberra. Ptol. l. 4. Cosm. where Med•…a betrayed her Fathers Kingdom, made Iason Master of the Golden Fleece and her self, and slew her Brother Absyrtus, whose Limbs she cut in pieces, and scat∣tered abroad, so to retard her pursuing Father, whilst he ga∣thered together the dispersed Members.

On the CHORUS.
(12) You Gods, &c. These Princely Nuptials, &c. Whilst all due Rites, &c.] It was the manner of the Ancients at Nuptials, to begin per Auspicia & Sacra, and Invocation of the Deieties, to whom they offered a lock of the Brides hair, tanquum Primitias; It was the Custom likewise for the People, at the Inauguration or Marriages of Princes to stand by, and favere linguâ, i. e. to abstain from evil words, and to offer up their Vows and Acclamations as the Omen of their future felicity. And (as Del Rius conjectures) to begin the Celebration of the Nuptial Solemnities in these words, Quote bonum, foelix, faustum, fortune tum{que} sit.

(13) First to those Powers that thunder fling] Meaning Iupiter and Pluto; As also the rest of the Deieties. For they likewise had their Thunder, yet such as they at first re∣ceiv'd from Iupiter. And with this difference: First, the lighting or Thunder which they darted, was of Colour ei∣there white, or black. That of Iupiters Ruddy. Theirs a∣gain was dull and heavy, and served only to punish; Iupi∣ters Propitious, and sent to admonish. I find, that of Iupi∣ters

Page 59

Thunder there were three sorts; The first small, and monitory; The second bigger, and breaking forth with a loud noise, sent by Jove by the General Advice, and upon the Votes of the Parliament of Gods. The last was gre∣la then the two first, and attended with consuming Fire, which was sent by Iupiter when in his Privy Counsel he determined, upon some urgent occasion, to reverse any ge∣nerall Decree, or Act established by the rest of the Gods. The Romans (as Pliny testifies, l. 2.) held, that but two of all the Deieties used to thunder, viz. Iupiter, and Pluto, the first by day, the last by night. Unto these Deieties in gene∣rall, they usually offered a White Bull in sacrifice at Nupti∣alls, (yet it was the opinion of some of the Ancients, that it was a thing Piacular to offer a Bull to Iupiter) as likewise, particularly to
(14) Thee O Lucina, &c.] (the same with Iuno as some will, as others the daughters of Iuno, Cui vincla I•…∣gale curae) a white Heifer; but in the sacrifice they threw the Gall behind the Altar in sign futurae inter Conjugas tranquilitatis, the other Parts of the Beast were burnt.

(15) To her who Mars his bloody hands, &c. Shall fall a gentler Sacrifice] The Goddess Venus; to whom they of∣feared, a bowl of Wine and Frankincense; or Concord, or Peace, the Conciliatrix of Differences, and Mother of Plen∣tie, signified by her still replenishing Horn. Alluding to the Story of the Amalthaean Goat, which being Nurse to Iupiter, and having broken one of her engaged Horns in a Ticket, the same was by Amalthea a Nymph (who owed the Goat) taken up, and filled with various sorts of Fruits and Flowers, and brought to the Infant Iupiter to smell on, of which benefit Iupiter being afterwards min•…full, granted this Boon to the Nymph, that whatever she should ask, •…should immediately spring from that Horn, called from thence Coruucopiae. vet. Ovid. 5. Factor.

View Image - Page 60
Page 60

(16) And thou who these Solemnities, &c. Thy head with Roses Crowned] Hymen (A pleasant search it were, to search for the Derivation of his Name; to which, Scaliger in the third of his Poet. will direct you) is here crowned with Roses, (Catullus crowns him with sweet Margerum) the reason why I find not; only this I read, that the Rose was a flower dedicated to Venus, and sprung (as Poets fine) from her blood, some Philosophers likewise were of open∣neon, that the colour and odour of the Rose proceeded from the Influence of her Planet, whose Colour and Prickles may perhaps allude to the Blushes and the Smarts of wounded Lovers; Capella likewise terms the Wreaths or Garlands usually worn at Nuptials, Conscia Veneris Serta.
Of Hymen, see more toward the end of this Chorus.

(17)

And thou bright Star with Silver Ray,]
Fore-runner of the Night and Day, &c.]
Hesperus; the same with Lucifer, a Star consecrate to Venus, and beloved of her;

—Oceani perfusus Lucifer unda,
Quem Venus ante alios Astrorum diligent ignes,
Extulit os Sacrum.
Verge. l. 8. Aeneid.
The Sea-bath'd Lucifer's bright Head aspires,
Whom Venus loves 'bove all Heav'n's shining Fires.
Supposed to be one and the same Star, Lucifer being taken for the Globe or body thereof, and Venus for that Power, (in the Metaphysics called the Intelligence) by which the Rotation of it's Orb is perpetuated, Scale. l. 5.

Page 61

Poet. usually invoked at Nuptials to bring on the Evening, the time wherein the Bridal Solemnities were performed. Of which likewise thus Claudian.
Attollens Thalamis Idalium Iubar
Dilectus venery nascitur Hesperus.
Claud. Nupt. Hon. & Mariae.
To light the Nuptials, his Italian Ray
Hesper beloved of Venus doth display.
(18) Among the Cecropian Dames, &c.] Attic, or Athenian Virgins; from Cecrops the first King of Attica, who founded and built the Tower or Castle of Athens; hence it came that the Athenians were called Cecropians, and the Region of Attica, Cecropia. He was contemporary with Moses (as Eusebius writes) and flourished about the year of the World, 3645. & before the Flood of Doucali•…n. He was said to be by-form'd, and to have the shape of a man above, and of a Dragon beneath. In regard of his Wisdom and Fortitude, or in that he was skil'd in two Languages, the Egyptian and Greek, or as Iustin reports, Quia primus Mar•…m Foeminae Matrimonio junxit.

(19) The Virgins of the Walls Town, &c.] Spartan Virgins; That Town being unwalled: The reason whereof being asked Agesilaus, he answered that Armed Citizens, and at Concord and Unity among themselves, were the best defence of a Town, whose safety he said consisted not in Bulwarks or Trenches, but in the Valour and united Resolution of the Inhabitants. It is at this day held and for∣tified by the Turks, being a Sanziackship, and by them cal∣led Mizithra.

View Image - Page 62
Page 62

(20)
Who on Taygetus his Crown]
In manly Passe-times, &c.]
Taygetus is a Mountain of Laconic, near to, and over∣looking Sparta; On whose Top, the Virgins of that Town and Country were wont to sport themselves in Wrestling, Races, and other manly Exercises, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 nudes femonibus (as Pelus in Euripides his Andromack taxes them.) Which Custom Plutarke writes had it's Original from Lycurgus his Institution. They used likewise Solemn Dances and Songs, in which they recited the Praises of Bacchus and Venus: First practised among themselves one∣lie (as Scaliger observes 1. Poet.) afterword in the Com∣pany of Young man, with whom they performed these kind of Exercises naked; commended by Plato in his Re∣public, as a thing fit to be practised by Women of all sorts and Ages.

(21) And those their limbs in Dirce lave] Meaning the Theban Virgins, Dirce being a Fountain in B•…otia near Thebes, sacred to the Muses; with whom likewise our Au∣thor may seem •…acitly to compare Creusa.

(22) Or in Alphaeus Sacred Wave.] Alphaeus is a River of Arcadia running along by Elis and Pisa, called here Sa∣cred, either in that as the Ancients supposed, no River but was thought to contain a Deietie, (and therefore by the Poets called the Sons of Gods) or that the Alain Games were performed to this River, as to a God and friend of Iupiter; with whose Water alone it was lawful to wash and cleanse the Altar of Olympic Jove, famous for the memorised love twixt him and Are•…thusa. Of which see Ovid. Metam. l. 5.

(23) The Aesonian Youth, &c.] Iason; the Son of

Page 63

Aeson, the Son of Cretaeus, the Son of Aeolus, who was his Mother is not certainly known. Some say Theog∣nis, other Polyphemes, some Eteoclymenes, and others Alcy∣midst. Vet. Apoll. School.
(24)

Shall Bacchus self give place]
Who to the yoke fierce Tigers chains]
Bacchus was so called from the howling vociferation which the Bacchae or Frowes, brought by him from con∣quer'd India, made. Said to be always young, in that he had the Looks of a Youth or Boy; and always reputed, inter Formosissimos. Drawn by yoked Tigers, a kind of Beast of an untamed Feritie; the Hieroglyphic, Emollitae, Ferociae.

(25)

Or he who o'er the Tripods reigns,]
Mild Brother to the Sterner Maid, &c.]
Apollo, who gave Oracles by the Tripod, which was a Seat or Stool of three feet, made of Gold or Brass; On which the Priest being seated, was inspired with the Spirit of Divination, and gave Answers. The Epithets of As∣pera and Ferox are often given by the Poets to Diana; which though they may seem in the opinion of some un∣suitable, and not fitly applied to such a Deietie; yet in re∣spect of her obstinate Vow of Perpetual Virginity, there be those that think she justly deserved them.

(26)

The Swan-got Twins fair Laeda laid]
Castor, with Pollux who for blow]
Of Weighty Sledge, &c.]
Castor and Pollux were feigned to be begotten by Iupi∣la

View Image - Page 64
Page 64

in the likeness of a Swan, on Laeda; who conceiving, brought forth, or (if I may as properly say it) laid two Eggs, of one came Helena, of the other Castor and Pollux. Fained to be borne of Eggs, in regard, (as Athenaeus says) by 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, which in the Greek signifies an Egg, was under∣stood likewise an upper Room or Chamber. Whence, (they being born in the upper Part of the House) the Fable may seem to spring. Pollux, (as Castor at Horse-man-ship) was famous at the Game or Exercise of the Sledge or Cactus. In which Exercise at the first Original they en∣countred one another with strokes of bare fists only; Af∣terward for the defence of the Hand there was added a Lo∣ra or Thong fastened at the Elbow and shoulder; to which Lore likewise, called Cactus or Cingulum (whence the Ex∣ercise took Denomination) was •…owed a weighty Piece of Iron or Lead; In which cruel Past-time they not sell∣dome endangered the dashing out of one another Brains, and therefore they usually wore a Helmet or Cap of de∣fence, especially for their ears: All the Art in this, was to avoid the blows, not by running back, but by the dexte∣rous motion of the Body. Scaliger seems to deride the opinion of those who make this Cactus to be a Staff wound about with the Lore and Plummet of Lead hung at the end. Vet. S•…al. l. 1. Poet.
(27) So fade the Pleiads, &c.] The Pleiads are said by some to be the Daughters of Lycurgus, who ruled in the Island of Naxos; who, for that they were the Nurses of Bacchus, were said to be constellated by Iupiter. They were seven in Number, their Names Celano, Stirrup, Me∣rope, Alcynoe, Meet, Taygeta, and Electra, which last (as Aratus says) is scarce to be seen; And for that reason by some thought to be so called, others fable that for shame she obscures her self, for as much as all the rest of her Sisters

Page 65

were married to Gods, and she alone had a Mortal to her husband. Proclus Diadochus upon Hesiod, reports them to be the Daughters of Atlas, begotten on the Nymph Pleione, from whence they are said to take their Denomination; who conceives them to be no other then the assisting An∣gells or Intelligences of the Seven Spheres, Allotting Ce∣laeno to the Sphere of Saturn, S•…erope to Iupiters, Merope to that of Mars, Aclynoe to the Sphere of Venus, May to Mercuries, Taygeta to the Moons, and Electra to the Suns; their Situation, according to Ovid in Phaenomenis, and Ser∣vius in Virgil, ante genua tauri.
Pleiades ante genu septemradiare feruntur,
Sed tantum apparet sub opaca septima nub.
Seven Pleiads before the knees of Taurus shine;
Dark clouds the seventh, hardly seen, confine.
Pliny places them in Cauda Tauri, reprehended by Ioseph Scaliger in his Manilian Annotations, since the Bull is but half bodied, his upper parts (as Ovid says) only appear∣ring, as cut off in the middle, about which Caesura the Plei∣ades are seated: So called, either from their plurality, or from the Greek which signifies to sail, in regard that upon their rising was the Season for Navigation, as in the Latin Vergiliae, from the Vernal Season, the time wherein they arise. Plin. l. 2. c. 41.

(28) Phaenician Dye] Purple or Scarlet, the best being that of Tyre a City of Phaenicia, near which the Scarlet-fish 〈◊〉 taken, that yields that dye. See Salmuthius upon Panci∣•…llus, de rebus Perditis & nuprimè Inventis.

(29) From Phases horrid Bed] Medea was called Phases, Colchis of the River Phases and Region of Colchos, as

View Image - Page 66
Page 66

being by some conceived to be there borne, though Pinda∣rus in the thirteenth Ode of his Olympicks, seems to make Corinth the Country of Medea, and not Colchos, yet so may she justly be called in regard that her Father Aeeta lea∣ving his Principality of Corinth, or exchanging it for Col∣chose, there reigned.
(30) Fair Issue of the God of Wi•…e] Hymen was said to be the Son of Bacchus and Venus (Catullus makes the Muse Urania his Mother, and •…ome, Apollo his Father.) The same with the Greeks (says Scaliger) as Thalassius with the Romans. By the Indians (as Boccace in Geneolog. Door. writes) styled the God of the Night. Of all the Deieties chiefly invoked at Nuptials. Lactanti•…s reports that Hy∣men was a beautiful Youth of Athens, who (for the love of a young Virgin, in the habit of one disguised, performing the Eleusinian Rites, was with divers other Maids of that City taken and carried away by Pirates, and by them (sup∣posing him a Maid) lodged with his Mistress. Who, when the Pirates were asleep, cut their throats, and then running before to Athens, told the Parents of the Maids, that if a∣amongst the rest they would assure him of her whom he af∣fected, he would restore their Daughters. Which being granted him, and the Marriage proving fortunate, it grew into a Custom afterword at Nuptials to invoke the name of Hymen. Of whom, and of his several Duties, it will not be amiss as a Corollary to add what is elegantly sung by Martianus Capella in these following Verses;

Tu quem psallentem Thalamis, quem matre Camaena,
Progenitum perhibent; Copula Sacra Deûm
Semina qui arcanis stringens pugnantia vinclis,
Complexu{que} sacro, dissona nexa foves.

Page 67

Name{que} Element ligas vicibus, mundum{que} merits,
At{que} auram mantis, corporibus socias.
Feeder complacito subquo nature jugatur,
Sexus concilias, & sub amore fidem:
O Hymenaee decens! Cypridis tu maxima Cura.
Hinc tibi name flagrans ore cupido micat.
Seu tibi quote Bacchus Pater est, placuisse chore as,
Cantare ad Thalamos seu Genitricis habes;
Co•…ere verniferis florentia lamina sorts,
Seu consanguineo Gratia trina dedit.
Thou Muse-borne: Who at Bridals chant'st, whose hands
Doe Link the Deieties in Sacred Bands.
Who jarring seeds in Mystic knots dost chain,
Discordants knit, in concord dost maintain.
Marry'st the World, the Elements dost bind
In mutual ties; to Bodies wedd'st the Mind.
Whose pleasing Yoke Nature her self doth prove,
Sexes unit'st, make Faith strike league with Love.
O Graceful Hymen! Joy of Erycine.
For in thy flagrant looks, hence love doth shine.
Whether the measured Brawls, in that thy Sire
Was Bacchus, or to chant i'th'Nuptiall Quire,
In that a Muse thy Mother thou affect'st;
Or Gates with flowers, the Graces Kinsman, deck'st.
View Image - Page 68
Page 68

(31) It is time to light thy carved Pine] After the Nup∣teal Supper was ended, and the Dances done; the Pronuba, (which was usually the Mother of the Bride) taking the Bride by the hand led her to the Genial Bed, though others will have this to be done by Youths, the nearest of Kin of the Fathers or Mothers side. Before them (according to the manner of the Greeks) went a Youth in a long Robe representing the Person of Hymen, bearing a Torch of Pine or White-thorn by Pliny reported to be held omniū Auspice∣tissima. After followed two others (according to the man∣ner of the Romans) bearing a Distaff and Spindle (after the Custom of the Greeks) a Sive or Boulter, and a Pestle and Mortar, signifying how the Bride was to employ her future time. And with these Ceremonies brought to the Bride Chamber, she was there by the Bridegroom unvai∣led. Vet. Plutarch. in Romulo. Scale. Scale. Poet. l. 3.
(32)

With Wine-wet-fingers then put out]
The Solemn Flame, &c.]
This Verse I have thus rendered, though contrary to the sense of Delrius, (who would have excute, which Irender put out, or shake out, to toss or make to blaze) as being induced by the more plausible Interpretation of M. Farnaby. Who con∣ceives it was the Office of Hymen at Nuptials to extinguish the Bridal Taper, as well as light it. I find it was the Cu∣stome likewise before the Torches were put out, for the Pronuba to light the Nuptial Lamp, which was to be kept constantly burning by Night, and that done, all the Tapers were extinguished; Which, that they were not laid under the Bed, or reserved to light a Funeral Pile, was most Re∣ligiously observed. Scale. l. 3. Poet.



Page 69

(33) And the Fessennine Youths doe sing, &c.] It was the Custom at Marriages (among the Ancients) the Bride, and Bridegroom being entered into Bed, and the Doors of the Chamber being locked, to Sing an Epithalamium full of Lascivious Wantonness, and not to be questioned Licen∣ciousnesse (as the Verses immediately before going intimate) that while that was Sung, Compressae Virgins Clamour non au∣diretur. To which end they strewn Nuts likewise to be trod on. Though there be a better reason rendered for it, to wit, That the married Couple should renounce and abandon all Childish Sports, and Vanities of Youth. These Verses, as the Youths that Sung them, were called Fescennine from Fesce•…∣number a Town of Etruria, from whence they first came; or as others will, in regard that Facinum a•…cere putabantur. They were held to drive away ill Luck or Witchery, or the conceived Revenge which Nemesis might take for too great Praises usually given to the Married pair in the Epithalamium or Marriage Song, and therefore these Fescennine Youths and Derisory Verses were added to the Music.
View Image - Page 70
Page 70


ANNOTATIONS Upon the second ACT.
(1) ANd thus could Jason cause Medea grieve!] The Name of Iason as Pindarus intimates in 〈◊〉 Pie∣thicor. seems to be derived à Sanando, 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 in the Greek signifying Sanity, who, by reason that in his younger years he was brought up under Chyron, and by him instructed in Surgery and Physic, was called Iason sive Senator.

(2)

The Signal Glory of the Colchian Crown]
Made Prize]
The Golden Fleece, brought to Colchos by Phryxus. The Fa∣ble of which is this: •…hryxus and his Sister Hell, flying from the Cruelty of their Father Athamas, exasperated by his wife their Step-mother Ino. (For they were the Children of re∣pudiated Nephele) were by their Mother furnished with a Ram, whose Fleece was of Gold which she had from Mer∣cury. Mounted upon which, they were carried through the Air, when they came to the Sea running twixt Sigaeum and Chaersonessus, Affrighted Hell fell from his back into the Sea, which from her took it's Name. Phryxus not with∣standing, safely arrived at Cholcos, and there in Memorial sacrificed the Ram to Iupiter of that called Phryxius, and hung the Fleece in the Grove of Mars, which was after∣ward kept (as they fabled) by a sleepless Dragon. Vet. Natal. Com. Mythol. l 6. Tacitus reports in the sixth Book of his Annals, that among the Colchians no man durst sacri∣fice a Ram, because (as he says) Phryxus was once carried

Page 71

upon one, be it, that that Ram was a beast or a Ship bearing that Enfigne. This Fleece Iason by the help of Medea made his Prize. Vet. Ovid. Met. & Apoll. l. 4. l. 7.
(3) Think on old Polios boiling o'er the Fire, &c.] Polios was King of Thessaly, which he by Power kept, though the right thereof belonged to his Nephew Iason: Medea therefore to bee revenged of him for the injury done her husband, coming to Polios his Court who was now very aged, pretends that she would restore his Youth, as he had done old Aesons her husbands Father, and persuaded his Credulous daughters to cut in Pieces his aged Limbs, and to boil them in a Cauldron of Water which she had pre∣pared; which when the daughters had done, she leaves them guilty of Particide and frustrate of their pious hopes, and by flight avoid their vengeance.

(4) Malea shall amaze, &c.] Malea is a Promontory of Laconic, on the South of P•…loponessus, so called from Ma∣leus one of the Argive Kings. By Ptolomy it is called O∣mignaton, extending fifty miles into the Sea; no small hen∣drance to the Mariner sailing along those Coasts.

(5) The Colchians hate thee] The Subjects of her Fa∣there Aeëta, and Inhabitants of Colchos; These as Amianus, l. 12. and Strabo l. 11. conjecture, originally sprung from the Egyptians, ovid. Vadianum in Pompon. Melam.

(z) Pelasgian Royalty] Pelasgia was commonly taken for all Greece, but more particularly for Thessaly and Angia; so called from Pelasgus, the Son of Neptune, or Inachus, here applied to the Corinthian Monarchy.

(5) What Phases in his winding Arms, &c.] Phases is the greatest River of Cholchos, taking his rise from the Mountains called Moschii (adjoining to a part of the Mountain Caucasus, dividing Cholchos from Iberia) and falling into the Euxine Sea, at this day called Face.

View Image - Page 72
Page 72

(6)
What ever behind the Scythian Pontus, &c.]
Where the salt Waves grow fresh, &c.]
The Scythian Pontus is that Sea, which beginning from the Thracian Bosphorus or straits of Constantinople, extends in a large Plain of Waters, known by several Names, by the Graecians called the Euxine Sea, or (as Ovid says) more fitly termed Axenos, of the Inhospitalie of the Inhabi∣tants along those Coasts, or because so infested by Pirates; by the Turks at this day called the Black Sea. And by our Author the Scythian Pontus, whose Waters are here said to be fresh with the Admistion of Rivers falling into them, The like is reported thereof by Pl•…ny, which may well be in regard of the neighbouring Palus Maeotis running into it by the Straits of Bosphorus Cimmerius, The River Tanais, and divers other great Rivers discharging their fresh Streams likewise into the same. It is observed by Naturalists, that the Northern Seas are less Salt then the Southern: For, whereas the saltness of the Sea is conceived to spring from a terrestrial adduced matter, mixing with the Waters, when by the Sunne-beames the thinner and fresher parts of the Water are exhaled, and the grosser and lower are left to suffer adustion; It follows, that the Rays of the Sun be∣ing weaker towards the North, the Exhalations should be less, and so cons•…quently the Saltness. Vet. Paul. Merulae. Dissertation do Maribus.

(7)

All that Exte•…t of Land whose Borders hems]
The Silver Thermodon; In trampled Fields]
Where Widowed Troops display their luned Shields]
Thermedon is a River of Cappadocia in the greater Asia, near which the Amazons were said to live, Inhabiting (as I

Page 73

conceive here is to be meant) so much of that Part of Cap∣padocia, by Ptolomy called Pontus Polemoniacus, as is inclu∣ded between the said River and the Euxine Sea. These Warre-like Women voluntarily divorced themselves from the Society of men, or rather expelled them, never marry∣ing, only once every year for Propagation of their Race admitting of the Company of men. The Male Children, (when they were delivered) they sent away to their Fa∣theirs; The Female they brought up, searing their right Breasts (whence they took their Denomination) that they might not hinder their Shooting. Of their Original, vide Isidorum. l. 11.
(8)

Lynceus he whose fight]
Extends cross Pontus it's emitted light]
Lynceus is reported to be the most quick-sighted of men, who from the Top of Taygetus is said clearly to survey all Peloponessus, and to discover Castor and Pollux lying hid in a hollow tree, with his sharp fight to pierce through the bodies of Oaks, to penetrate the Earth, and Globe of the Moon as Pliny says, l. 2. Not. Hist. c. 7. And as Plutarch writes, to dis∣corn Ships from Sicily, weighing Anchor in some Parts of Africa, being no less then 1500 Steady. Though all Mathe∣maticians deny any visible object upon Earth or at Sea to be discerned the tenth part of such a distance, add beside the Gibbositie or convexity of the Sea or Earth, which in so great a distance must needs intercept the sight. (If any thing yet might be said to hinder the penetrating sight of Lynce∣us.) But the Fable of his wonderful Perspicacity seems to arise from his cunning in finding out of Gold Mines, which he discovered with such certainty, that thereupon the ignorant vulgar reported he could see into the Bowels of

View Image - Page 74
Page 74

the Earth. See Hygin. de Poet. Fabul. l. 1. Here our Author seems to adhere to the Opinion of the Stoics and Piato∣nests, who will have Vision to be by Emission of Radii or Beams, from the sight to the Object; oppugned by the Peripatetticks, and the best Masters of the Optics; who say. That Vision is by Radii extrinsically flowing from the visible Object to the sight, the Object being illuminated by the light, and the Radii, or light proceeding from that illu∣minated Body striking the Eye; whose Radii extending in form of a Pyramid, whose Vertex or Point is in the Eye, and Basis in the thing visible. Vet. quae Alhaz. c. 5. l. 1. As like∣wise, what that Ornament of our Nation and Learning, the Viscount of S. Albons says of Vision in his Nature. Hist. p. 65. 72. 144. &c.
(9) And all the Minyae] People of Thessaly, so called of Orcomenus a River of that Country formerly called Minyëus, supposed to be the Son of Neptune: Or as Apollonius writes, l. 5. from the Daughters of Minyas; (perhaps after the manner of the Carians, who, as Herodotus report, took their Names from their Mothers; The Minyae were likewise of Baeotia, called Minyae Orchomenii (as some will) from Minyas, and Orchomenus his Son, inha∣biting the City of Orcomenus from him so called. But the Minyae, properly so termed, were those dwelling about Iolcos.

(10)

Croon Thy knees wee touched, and did implore]
The Faith of thy Protecting hand, &c.]
The Ancients made several Parts of man, the Seats of several moral Virtues, and Vices; assigning modest shame∣facenesse to the Fore-head, the contrary vice to the Mouth, Irrision and Sagacity to the Nose, Judgement to the Ear, Pride and disdain to the Eye-browes, Pity to the

Page 75

Knees, which Suppliants used, when they made their re∣quests with Reverence to touch and embrace. The hand was the Pledge of Faith, as Cicero says in the second of his Philippe. [Those hands which were the Pledges of Faith, are now violated with perfidious Wickednesse] Which in the Act of Promise, or Paction, was held forth and touched by the Suppliant; the reason (as Varro gives it) in that the Authority of the Ancients consisted in the Power and strength of the hand. Plutarch reports, That the Flamins were wont to perform divine Rites, Menu ad digitos in∣•…, symbolically signifying, That Faith is inviolably to be kept, and that the hand was it's consecrated Seat.

Upon the CHORUS.
(11)

Rash man was he with Ships fraile-Beake]
Did first the treacherous Billows break]
This suits with that of Horace, Illi Robur & as triplex, &c. to which may be applied the Answer of Carfilides, Who being asked his Opinion what he thought of the Sea, and Sea∣men; answered, That there was nothing more treacherous then the first, and that the others were it's Comrades.

(12)

Drawn to too thin Dimensions far]
Twixt Life and Death too poor' a bar]
Alluding perhaps to that Apophthegm of Anacharsis (in Laertius) That the distance betwixt death and those in a ship at Sea, was no more then the thickness of the Bark; Of which thus Iuvenall:

View Image - Page 76
Page 76

Inune & vents animum commit, dolato
Confisus ligno, digitise à morte remotus
Quatuor, aut septem, sisit latissima T•…da.
Satyr. 12.
Go; trusting in a treacherous Plank; but four
Poor Inches distant, or but seven, if more,
From death; and to the winds thy life commit.
(13) The stormy Hyad's] A Constellation as Aratus writes of seven, according to Proclus of six, & as Hesiod will, of five Stars in the fore-head of the Bull, whose rise and set was the Cause of Storms and Tempests. These were the daughters of Atlas, who so excessively bewailed the death of their Bro∣there Hies, torn in pieces by a Lyon, that from him they took their Denomination, and by the Commiserating Gods were converted into Stars. Vet. Higyn Astronom. Poet.

(13) The Olenian Goats bright Star, &c.] The A∣malthaean Goat, fained by Poets to be the Nurse of Iupiter, so called from Olenum a Town of Achaia, near which she gave him suck. For which benefit she was afterwards by Iupiter translated among the Stars; of her we have spo∣ken already in the Annotations upon the first Chorus.

(14)

Nor those which that old lazy Swain]
Boots drives, the Northern Wane, &c.]
Boots is otherwise called Arctophylax; whose first name, as Manilius says, is given him in that


Page 77


—Boots.
Quòd stimulo junctis instate de more Iuvencis.
Manil. l. 1. seu Sphere.
He seems with goad t'incite his yoked Steers.

The Northern Wane consists of seven Stars in the Constellation of the greater Bear, (which is in all made up of 24) four of which, on the side of the Bear making by their Postures the Form of a Quadrangle, are called the Wane the three on her Tail (if a Bear may be said to have one) the Oxen; Near which Boots being placed, is styled the Waggoner or Driver; called here lazy, in regard of his slow Motion, by reason of his Vicinity to the Pole.

(15) The Pine of Thessaly, &c.] Argos; built of Thessa∣lian Pines, Thessaly being a Region of Greece, abounding in Mountains and Woods; of Argos see more after.

(16) Argos self was then struck mute] Argos was said to be endued with voice, and more then that, with Prophecy; being by Valerius Flaccus in the first of his Argonauticks, called Fa•…idicam ratem, but more peculiarly the Mid-Mast of the Ship, which was placed by Pallas her self, and cut from the Dodonaean Oak which gave Oracles.

(16)

—When those Rocks that bound]
The Entrance to the Pontick Sound]
These are two Rocks in the Mouth of the Straits of the Thracian Bosphorus called Cyan and Symplegades. The first name given them in regard of their black Colour; and the other in that as the Poets feigned they justly against one ano∣there

View Image - Page 78
Page 78

with violent concursions. The ground of that Fictionari∣sing, for that, to the Sailor in regard of their near distance & the Motion of the Ship and Sea, they seemed now to part, and then again to close. Or as I•…remias Hoelzinus in his Notes upon Apol. l. 2. verse. 608. writes, In that the broken Rocks lie∣ing in the Sea, in a manner close up the narrow straits, or in regard of Pyarts possessing both sides of the passage and obstructing the same, until overcome by Iason.
(18)

The Maid whose Waste surrounds]
A Cincture of fierce ravening hounds]
Scylla, the Daughter of Ph•…rcui: the Cause and manner of whose transmutation you may read in the 14 Book of Ovid's Metamorphosis, converted into a Rock in the Sici∣lian Sea, near to the Promontory of Pelorus, so feigned ac∣cording to Salust, in that afar off it represents to the Be∣holders the Shape or Form of a Woman, whose barking Dogs hemming her Waste are no other then the roaring Waves dashing against it.

(19) The Ausonian Maine] The Italian Sea; running a∣long the Coast of Italy, so called from Auson the Son of Ulysses and Calypso. The Sicilians (as Strabo reports, lib. 2.) were wont to say of this Sea that it alone was sweet, when as all others were salt; not truly, but jestingly, in regard of the sweet Cates and delicacies usually transported to them by this Sea.

(20)

'Till on his Lyre Pierian, played]
Orpheus]
The Reader may perchance think it strange to find two several Names applied to one Instrument, being here termed a Lyre, and but immediately before a Lute. Yet I may as well

Page 79

varyin the English, as the Author himself in the Original, first calling it Lyram, & then Cytharam. The better therefore to in∣form the Ordinary Reader, He may take Notice; That the Words Lyra, Cythara, Testudo, Chilies, are by the Poets usu∣ally applied to one and the same Instrument. The three first first so used by Statius in the first of his Achilleids, and the tenth book of his Thebais: Yet are they several Instru∣mints. The Lyra (according to Pausanias) being the In∣vention of Mercury, and the Cythara of Apollo. The In∣vention and form of Mercuries Lyra, is thus described by Lucian (in Dialog•… Apoll. and Vulcani.) Mercury having found a dead Tortoise, made an Instrument thereof, applying to the hollow shell, a Neck extending with two Horns; glue∣ing Reeds, and over them straning a Cover, as the Belly of the Instrument, and to that fastening a Bridge, and seven strings. From this (as Ioseph Scaliger observes in his Learn∣ed Annotations upon Manilius) proceeded the Cythara or Chilies, likewise called 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉, which is no other then the Lyre of Mercury reformed; for whereas that had two Necks, this had but one, in whose Top, Pegs were placed for the Winding up of the Strings, the very same with our Lute at this day. And as from the Entire Lyra proceeded the Chilies or Lute, so from a Part thereof came the Latter Lyra usually attributed to Orion, Apollo, and Hercules, which is no other then the Lyra of Mercury with the Testude or Back taken away and is in fashion like to two Ss opposed, and an I transversed, thus. SS played upon both with the Ple∣ctrumor Quil, and fingers alone. Sometimes with both hands, as in our Harp, though Venantius Fortunatus by him cited make the Harp and Lyra to be two different Instru∣mints.
Romanus Lyra ply•…dit tibi,
Barbarus Harpa.
View Image - Page 80
Page 80

The Roman to the Lyre thy Praises sings,
And the Barbarian to Harp's tuned strings.
This Lute or Lyre of Orpheus (which Scaliger will have to be after the Form of Mercuries) is constellated for it's admirable Effects; studded with Nine Stars here called Pi•…rein, in that it was given him by his Mother the Muse Calliope. Of which thus Manilius.

—Lyra diductis in Caelum cornibus, inter
La conspicitur, quaquondam caeperat Orpheus,
Omne quote attigerat cantu, manes{que} perimos
Facet Iter; domnit{que} infernos Carmine leges.
Hues caelestis honos; similes{que} Potentia Causae.
Tunc sylvas & saxatrahens, nuns la ducit.
Manil. l. 1. seu Sphere.
The Lyre in Heaven with Horns distended among
The Stars is seen, with which his charming Song
Orpheus began once, made to Hell his Way,
And forced the Infernal Laws his Verse obey.
Celestial honour's added; the same cause
Remains; once Woods and Stones, now Stars it draws.
(21)

And even the Siren made]
Wont ships to Captive while she sings]
Follow the Music of his strings]
The Sirens are said to be the Daughters of the River

Page 81

Achellous, and the Muse Calliope, Eur•…pits in Helena makes them the Daughters of Tellus, (or as same will, of Terpsicho∣re, as others of Melpomen•…, or Stirrup) They were in number three, their names Parthenope, Lygia, Leucosia, of whom, one played on the Lyre, another on a Pipe, and the third was excellent at singing. Virgins above, and Fishes be∣neath, once winged, but in a Contention with the Muses o∣vercome, they were by them unplumed. Their manner was with their Music to allure the Mariners, to stay and listen, to them, and having by their Melody charmed them asleep, to devour them; Of whom, thus Claudian.
Dull•…e malum pelago Siren, volucer{que} puellae,
Scyllaeos inter fremitus avidam{que} Charybdim
Musica sex fretis habitabant dulcia Monstra.
Blanda Periclamaris; terror q̄uo{que} gratus in undis:
Delatis licit huc incumberet aura Carinis,
Implessent que Sinus vent de Pup ferentes,
Figebat vox una ratem: nec tender certum
Delectabat iter reditus, odium{que} juvabat.
Nec dol•…r ullus •…rat, mortem debate ipsa voluptas.
Claud. Epigr. In Syrenas.
Sirens the elective Mischief of the waves,
Winged Virgins; twixt Charybdis greedy Caves,
And Scylla's barking Rocks, inhabited.
Seas flattering Perils, and waves pleasing dread.
View Image - Page 82
Page 82

Ships' fore a fore-winde running, when their sails
Swelled with the forsive Breath of fav'ring Gales
Their voice alone did fix; who now no more
Think of returning to the wished shore,
But hate the thought; no sense of pain perceive
But life in the excess of pleasure leave.
They were twice overcome, once by Orpheus as is here intimated, and again by Ulysses, (if yet, he may not rather be said, not to be vanquished by them, then to have over∣come them.) Our Orpheus his way of victory was the more noble; who, (whereas Ulysses only stopped his Ears not to hear their Songs) chanting aloud the Praises of the Gods, did with his voice drown their pernicious Me∣lody.

(22)

Greater mischief then the Sea,
Medea, &c.]
Perhaps alluding to that Adage, Ignis, Mare, Mulier, tria male, Of which see Erasmus Adage•… 8. Centaur 2. Euripi•… brings in Medea, giving no better a Character of her Sex, (and yet perhaps too good for her) then this,

—〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉
—〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉
Sumus quidem quills sumus nos Foemine, no{que} enim malè ausim decor.
(23) Araxis, &c.] Is a river of the greater Armenia taking his beginning from Fountains near the Mountain Peri∣arts,

Page 83

from whence, as Ptolomy describes it) running East∣ward almost as far as the Ca•…peon Mountains, and then turning Northward with two divided streams, discharges one into the Hyrcanian or Caspian sea, and mingles the o∣there with the River Cirrus or Thyras, falling likewise into the same Sea.
(24) Albis and Rhine, &c.] Albis is a River of Germa∣ny taking his beginning in the County of the Hermunduri in the ancient Province of Rhaetia, in times past (as Taeitus says in his Book de Moribus Germaniae) a famous River and well known, now only heard of. At this day called the Alb.

Rhine or the Rhine is the most celebrated River of Ger∣many, the Western Boundure of that Country, having his beginning (according to the fore-named Author) on the top of the inaccessible Rhaetian Alps; •… whence running with a Course winding somewhat Westward, he at length falls into the North or German Ocean.

(25)

The time shall come, wherein the Marine]
M'unloose, &c.]
▪N•…r Thule be Earths farthest bound.]
Not a little doe the Spaniards glory in this Prophecy of Seneca; as pointing forth the discovery of America by them first found out. Sanè non vane, si de Hispanic Hispanus, says Delrius, Nor is it less admired by some of our own Countrymen: I cannot but wonder at th•…t bold Prophecy of Seneca, say•…s Doctor Hackwel (Apolog. &c.) yet my Lord Bacon in his Essay of Prophesies seems not to allow of this for one. See Plato in Phoedone de Orb incogn•…o, & Aelian in his various History de Colloquio mid & Silen•…. l. 3. c. 18. But particularly concerning this Prophecy of Seneca, see

View Image - Page 84
Page 84

Abrahamus Ortelus in his Map of the West-Indies.
Concerning Thule there is no small difference among Authors. The Poets generally in their Expressions used it for a place far remote, and beyond which there was no known land. Pliny makes it to bee an Island six days sail from Britain Northward; some have made it to be an Island in Britain, and others Britain it self so called. Strabo confesses the Story of Thule to be most obscure; And Petrarch, l. 3. Epist. 1, having said much, though no∣thing positively, concludes at last thus, Vt nihil•… videatur occultior ipsa Insula, quam veritas. Mercator makes it to be Island, and Ortelius will have it to bee Tylemarke, a Tract of Norway. Our English Pausanias (the learned Cambden) supposes it, (and most probably) to be Shetland or Headland, an Island in the Scottish Seas, lying between Norway and Scotland, and under the Dominion of the latter; which his Conjecture he strengthens by the Authority of Pucerus who (in his Book de d mensione Tarry) says that by Sea-men it is called Thylensel. To this, adding the site of the Island agreeable to that wherein Ptolomy places it, he assures himself certainly to have found Thule, and pronounces the matter to be at an end and questionless. Which opinion of his the much-knowing Soften seems likewise to ap∣prove of in his Mare Clausum. l. 2. c. 1. p. 121. The name of this Island Suidas derives from Thules a King of Egypt; Isidore from the Sun; and some from the Saxon Word Tell, which signifies a Limit, as if it were a Bound of the North and West. Vide Cambden de Insulis Britanius. p. 8, •….


Page 85


ANNOTATIONS Upon the third ACT.
(1) ON Pindus snowy Top, or Nysa's Crown] Pindus is a Mountain upon the Borders of Thessaly near Thrice: Nice, when alone without any other Attribute, (for there are ten Places, Cities, and others of that Name) is taken for a City of India, seated at the foot of the Mountain called Morose, (mentioned by Quintus Curtius in the 8th Book of his History) in a Cave in which Bac∣•…hus was said to be nursed. The Scholiast of Apollonius makes it (as our Author here) a Mountain (of India.) Del∣rius yet disassents from him, and conceives that he confounds Nice with Morose, and would have it to be one of the Tops of P•…rnassus: Pindus and Nice were places consecrate to Bac•…hus, where his Frantic Solemnities were used to be ce∣lebrated.

(2) With a Lymphatic Rage possessed] Those were said to be Lymphatic, who, having by chance espied some Nymph or watery Deietie in the River, were by them for that discovery dispossessed of their Senses. Or else so called, (as conjectured) in that, from the abundance and superflui∣tie of the Brains moisture, proceeded their distraction. As Lunatic, in regard that the Moon is predominant over the humours.

(3) The undrench'd Arctos turns] By Arctos is meant the Constellation of the Northern Bear, as likewise the Arctic Circle, in which that Constellation is included, cal∣led Arctos, as well as Arcticus. Of which see Ioseph Sca∣ledger

View Image - Page 86
Page 86

his Learned Annotations upon Manilius, p. 75. in l. 1. seu Sphere. The reason of that Epithet undrench'd, you shall find in the Annotations upon the fourth Act.
(4) Scylla's or Charybdis Caves] Of Scylla wee have already spoken: Charibdis was feigned to be an old greedy Hag, slain by Hercules for stealing away his Oxen, and cast into Sea antiently called Euripus Taurominitanus, running twixt Sicily and Italy, at this day by the Italians called Garo faro. (Vet. Paul. Merulae dissertac. de Mar.) Others •…aigne that she was by Iupiter struck dead with Thunder, and converted into a Rock in that Sea bearing her name. Con∣corning whom that noted Adage is in every mans Mouth, I•…cidit in Scyllam cupiens vitare Charybdim. Which yet, (as Sanctius upon Alciat, notes) is not rightly understood by those, who apply it to such as avoiding a small mischief fall into a Greater, but is meant by the Contrary; Scylla be∣ing a lesser Evil then Charybdis, and therefore Circa in Ho∣mer advises Ulysses to steer his Course rather near Scylla then Charybdis.

(5)

What Aetna under which Typhaeus lies]
Expiring flames, &c.]
Typhaeus was one of the Giants that invaded the Hey∣vans, struck down by Iupiter with Thunder; over whom, (according to Pindarus and Ovid) Aetna, (according to Homer and Virgil) In•…rime, Iovis Imperiis imposta.—

(6) Nor wrathful Euxine Seas by Corus force, &c.] Of the Euxi•…e Sea wee have already spoken. Corus according to the opinion of some, is a Western wind blowing to∣ward the North; so likewise Luean makes it 5 Phars. though the Censurer of him, and all Poets reprehend him for it, who will have it to arise (and rightly) from a Point of

Page 87

the North, and from thence directly bowing Southward. Vet. ejus Poet. l. 5 seu Critic.
(7) Shall wee for small Jolcos make?] Iolcos was the Birth Place of Iason, called likewise Larissa (as Pomponiu's Mela testifies, l. 2.) which gave a Title to Achilles, who by Virgil is stiled Larissaeus. The place, as Pindarus in his fourth Pyth. writes, from whence Iason with his Argonan∣ticks first set sail for Colchos.

(8) Thessalian Tempe] Tempe was a most celebrated Grove of Thessaly, and sacred to the Muses: Aelian, who at large descrbes this place in his various Histories, l. 3. c. 1. writes, that the victors in the Pythian Games were used to becrown'd with the Laurel of this Grove in Memorial of Apollo, who, after he had slain Python, was there crowned with a Wreath of Baize; an Altar being afterwards erect∣ed to him in the Place where it was done.

(9)

—Seas]
The witnesses of our wronged Nuptials]
Our Author seems to follow the opinion of those who will have the Nuptials of Iason and Medea performed at Sea. Apollonius will have them celebrated in the Island Cor∣cyra; Some at Byzantium, others in Colchis, and with the Privitie of Aeëta; Valerius Flaccus makes them to be be∣gun in the Island Pause, and interrupted by the coming of of Absyrtus.

(9)

Of all the Wealth by Scythians rapt away]
From Sun-scorch'd Dwellers of Rich India]
Meant by the Eastern Scythians; Scythia by Geogra∣phers being divided into Scythia Europaea, and Asietica;

View Image - Page 88
Page 88

Scythia, Europaea, (concerning which see Pomponius Mela, l. 2. and Pliny l. 4.) extends from the Bank of Tanais, Pa∣lus Maeotis, and the sh•…ares of the Euxine Sea, to the mouth of Ester. Asiatica, beginning from the limits of the opposite shores towards the East, as far as the Seres on the North bounded with the Ocean, on the South stretching to the Mountain Taurus, on the West to Cappadocia and Are∣menia. (Though those Countries were likewise under the Subjection of the Scythians.) Ptolomy (l. 6. Cosm.) divides this Scythia Asiatica, into Scythia intra Imam Montem, and Scythia extra Imam Montem. That, intra Imam, he terminates on the West by Sarmatià Asiatica, on the East by the Mountain Ima•…s, on the South by the Nations be∣yond the Caspian or Hyrcanian Sea, and on the North by the Land called by him terra la; That Extra Imam, hath on the East the People called Seres, on the North la∣ra la, on the South India extra Gangem, and on the West Scythia interior. Both of these are properly called Scythia,
(10) Phoebus with Sysiphus his Nephews join] Mean∣ing the Issue of Medea, Daughter of Aeëta, Son of Phae∣bus, with the Off-spring of Crensa, Daughter of Ceron, Son of Sysiphus.


Upon the CHORUS.
(11) When Ester like a Torrent r•…w'ld] Ester is a part of Danubius, or the Danow, a famous River of Germany, which, (as Pomponius Mela says) Maintaining his course along while through divers Lands, is called Danubius, after by the Inhabitants of the Countries through which it passes Ester. Ptolomy more particularly tells us, That when Danube∣us is come as far as the City of Accium (a City of the

Page 89

Lower Mysia, near the Confines of Daisy, in the 47 de∣gre, and of Northern latitude;) It loses it's name, and from thence, until it falls into the Sea is called Ester. Which having received into it threescore Navigable Rivers falls at length into the Euxine Sea, with as many streams as No∣lus into the Egyptian. It arises not far from the Hercy∣neon Wood from a clear Spring, now enclosed within the Castle of Donaweschingen, a House of the Counts of Fur∣st•…nbergue. (Thuilius) of all the Rivers of Europe (as pliny says) alone maintaining a continued course East∣ward. Vet. Plin. l. 4. c. 2. and 12.
(12) Not Rhodanus with rapid course] Rhodanus or the Rh•…an, is a River of Galley Narbonensis arising from the Grison Alps, and from thence, as it were, compassing the Country with his winding streams, falls at length into the Galliek or Massilian Sea.

(13) Not Haemus when the Suns hot Beams] Haemus is a Mountain of Thrice, upon the Borders of Mysia inferior by 〈◊〉 reported to be of that eminent Height, that a man from the Top thereof might behold both Egaean and Ionian Seas; though Strabo seems not to allow of this for a truth. This mighty Mountain (if wee believe the Po∣ets) was once a man, and the neighbouring Mountain 〈◊〉, his Sister, of whose Transformation see Ovid's Me∣tam. l. 6.

(14) The sacred Grove which Pelion crowned, &c.] Pe∣lion is a most noted Mountain of Thessaly; in a Cave or Grot, in which, Peleus marrying The•…is entertained (as the Poets Fable) and feasted all the Gods. (Vet. Claudian. de Nuptiis Honour. & Mar. and Euripides in Iphigenia.) From whence a great part of the Timber that built Argos, was field, and taken.

(15) To an unskilful Pilot, &c.] Who this should be

View Image - Page 90
Page 90

that succeeded Typhis in the Pylot-ship of Argos is not a∣greed on; some say An•…aeus, others Euphemus, but the most generally received opinion is, that it was Ergynus the Son of Neptune, afterwards slain by Hercules.
(16) Amongst unknown Ghosts lies tomb'd in sand] Tie∣phis on a sudden as he held the Helm fell dead, and was buried in Mariandinum a famous Cave in Bythinia Acheru∣sia, but whether before he came to Colchos or in the Return is not known. Vet. Apollonii Scholiasten. l. 2.

(17) He from the Vocal Muse that springs] Orpheus; Who by general consent of the ancients, was held to be the Son of Phoebus, begotten on the Muse Calliope. de Orpheo vide Vic. Com. Sent. Albam. de Sapientia veter. c. 11. cui Ti∣tulus Orpheus sive Philosophia. & Iereniam Hoelzlinum in Prolegomenis ad Apollonium. p. 33. & F•…lgent. Mytholog.

(18) Dragged unto Haebrus streaming head] Haebrus is a River of Thrice, famous for the memorised Tragedy of Orpheus, into which the furious Bacchanals after they •…ad torn his body in Pieces threw his head, it is now called Meritza.

(18) Alcides Bores Issue slew, &] Calais and Zetes, the Son of Bores were slain by Hercules in the Island T•…nos, who, (as Apollonius hath it in the first of his Ergo∣nauticks) in Memorial thereof erected upon their Sepul∣chre two Pillars, the one whereof was said to move at the blowing of the North Wind. The Cause of their death (as I find collected by the Scholiast of Apollonius) is variously delivered. Some say, the reason of it was, in they that dissuaded the Return of Argos into Mysia to take in Hercules; some say, that Hercules did it to revenge the injury he had recei∣ved from their Father Bores in the Island of Cos, where he distressed him with a storm; Others, in that they conten∣ded with Hercules about the Dividend of the Gifts given

Page 91

by Iason among the Argonauticks; and some for that, ha∣ving received Hercules as their Guest, they treacherously conspired his Death.
(19)

He who could various shapes endue]
From Neptune who derives his Birth, &c.]
Periclimenus, who by the gift of his Father Neptune could change himself into sundry shapes, slain by Hercu∣les after he had transformed himself into an Eagle.

(20)—Forced the Stygian Sound] Hercules as the Poets feign descended into Hell on this occasion. Theseus and Perithous attempting to steal thence Proserpina, were by Pl•…to taken Prisoners. Whose Rescue Hercules under∣took and by force performed, and dragged from thence Cer∣berus. Vet. Ovid. Met. l. 9.

(20)

Alive on Iota's Pyre reposed]
His limbs to cruel Flames exposed]
While mingled goares Infection, &c.]
Nessus, attempting to ravish Deianira, after he had trance∣ported her over the River Evenus, was by Hercules (yet on this side the River) shot through with one of his poison∣os Arrows; He, to be revenged of Hercules, cunningly before he dyes, insinuates into Deianira, That a shirt dipped in his Blood, and sent to her Husband to be put on, would re∣claim his love from others, and regain his languishing Affe∣ction towards her. Which advice she believing presently puts in execution, and sends a shirt dipped in his Blood, (not thinking of the poison mixing withit) to her Husband, which, (when he had put it on) cleaving to his flesh, con∣summed him with burning Tortures; He in this Agony causes

View Image - Page 92
Page 92

a funeral Pile to be built on the Mountain O Eta in Thessa∣lie, and laying himself thereon, commanded the same to be fired, and so burnt himself alive. Vet. Ovid. Met. l. 9.
(21) A Boar Ancaeus life, &c.] Ancaeus was one of those who adventured with Meleager in the hunting of the Chalidonian Boar, by whom he was slain. Vet. Ovid. Met. l. 8. Of whom likewise it is said, that a Boar breaking into a Vineyard where he was drinking, and now about to put the Cup to his lips, slew him, from whence came the Proverb, Multi cadunt inter Calicem supreme{que} Libra.

(22)

His Uncles Meleager slew]
And by the vengeful hauled doth fall]
Of his enraged Mother, &c.]
Meleager having slain the Calydonian Boar, presented his Head to Atalanta (a beautiful young Nymph, who first wounded him, and whom he affected) which Meleagers Uncles (Toxeus and Plexippus) envying at, took from Atalanta the spoil, at which the enraged Lover slew them both; The News whereof is brought to Althaea, Melea∣gers Mother, who to revenge her Brothers deaths, throws her Sons fatal Brand, (the Fable of which see in the 8th Book of Ovid. Met.) into the Fire, together with which his life consumed.

(23) The Boy by Hercules unfound, &c.] Hylas, the Son of Theodomas; a Youth beloved of Hercules, who being sent into Mysia, to fetch fresh water from the River Ass∣nius, was drowned in the same; or, as feigned, Rapt away by the Nymphs of the Flood; in search of whom, Hercu∣les and Polyphemus, went


Page 93

—Hylam—quo font relictum
Clements, ut littus Hyla, Hyla omne sonaret.
Calling on Hylas in the River drowned
That all the Shores did Hylas, Hylas sound.
The following Verses, in the Original, beginning Id∣monem quamvis, &c. in the end of this Chorus, as likewise three others immediately following this Verse-ignotas jacet inter umbras. In the middle thereof, I have omitted, as be∣ing by Heinsius and some latter Critics justly censured to be none of Seneca's, in that they savour of many Illiterate absurdities, and confound times and Stories. Conceiving it an Injustice to charge upon Seneca the defects of a Poet∣aster.

View Image - Page 94
Page 94


ANNOTATIONS Upon the fourth ACT.
(1)WHat ever Poisons Libya's scalding s•…nds, &c.] Libya is a Country of Africa, taken sometimes for all Africa, that part thereof which borders upon Egypt be∣ing fertile though a desert, in poisonous simples, and vene∣mous Serpents, which (as Ovid feigns in 4. Met.) first sprung from the drops of Blood falling from Medusa's Head newly di•…ected, as the same was transported by winged Perseus over that Region, or as others, from the Blood of the slain Giants; But Naturalists more truly report, that those Countries which are infested with too much heat or cold, are ever fruitful in such hurtful Productions.

(2) What Taurus, &c.] Taurus is a Mountain of Asia, or rather a continued Ridge of Mountains linked toge∣there, and running from the Mountains Scored•…sci, and the Borders of Cappadocia, unto the uttermost Bounds of Cilicia.

(3)

Hither descend the Snake that seems to lie]
Like a huge Torrent Rolling cross the sk•…e]
In whose Immense folds, &c.]
This was that Dragon which was slain by Cadmus in B•…otia, when he was sent by Agenor in search of his Sister, Made a Constellation, consisting of one and thirty Stars, and placed between the two Bears, which, with his si∣navy f•…exures, he seems to enfold, the lesser with his head

Page 95

and Neck, the greater with his Tail. By the one of which it is said, the Achaians, by the other the Sydonians were used to sail. Of which likewise Ovid.
Magna Minor{que} Ferae, qua•…rum regit altar Graias
Altar Sidonias, utra{que} sicca, rates.
Trist. l. 4.
Great and less Bear, of which, through Seas rough Tides,
This Grecian Ships, that, (both dry) Sidon's guides.
(4) His griping Hands let Ophiucus loose] Ophiucus is a Constellation consisting of 17 Stars (as the Scholiast of Aratus writes) so called, in that in his hand he seems to hold or grasp a Serpent (which is likewise made up of 30 Sarres) conceived to be Aesculapius, Hercules, or Prome∣thous, converted into that Constellation, commonly called Serpentarius. Vet. Hygini Poeticon Astronomicon.

(5) Python that durst assail two Heavenly Powers] Pie∣thou was sent by envious Iuno as a Plague to pursue Latona, when great with Child of Phoebus and Diana, and after∣wards was slain by young Apollo.

(6) Hydra with all those Serpents, &c.] Hydra was a Serpent, feigned to have many Heads which Hercules in∣countring with: And cutting off some of her heads, in the room of each of those cut off, sprung two more, multiply∣ing by their own Ruin; the growth of which, Hercules at last, by cauterising the wound, prevented, and so slew this Monster, which was afterwards made a Celestial sign, being a Southern Constellation, extending his head to∣wards the sign called the Great Dog, or Sirius, his middle under the Lyon, and his Tail toward the Centaur or Chi∣ron. Vet. Arat. Scholiast.

View Image - Page 96
Page 96

(7) Whatever on impervious Eryx grows] Eryx is á Mountain of Sicilia, so called from Eryx the Son of Bu∣tos and Venus sacred to her, of which she was called Eryci∣na. At this day it is called Monte di Trapani, as being not far from Drepanum, now called Trapani, and betwixt that and Panormus, now called Palermo.
(8) What Caucasus stained with Promethean blood] Can∣casus is a Mountain of Scythia, beginning from the Moun∣taine Corax, and with one Ridge parting Colchos from Ibe∣ria, with the other Iberia from Albany, and so running to the Ceraunian Mountains. To this Hill was Prometheus, as the Poets fabled, bound for stealing fire from Heaven. Of whom see more hereafter.

(9) The Warlike Medes.] There be some, who would charge our Author with an Anacronisme, in that he brings in Medea's Nurse speaking of the Medes; who, as they would have it, took their Denomination from Medius the Son of Medea by Aegeus; but the Name of Media is more ancient, being so called from Madai the Son of In∣phet, who as Sleyden writes, was sent thither by Nimrod to plant, about 150 years after the Flood, where he laid the Foundations of that ancient Empire called after his own Name. Vet. Iosephi Antiquit. Iudaic. l. 1.

(10) What flying Parthians use] Parthia is a Country of Asia, bounded, as Ptolomy describes it, on the West by a part of Media, on the North by Hircania, on the East by Aria, on the South by Carmenia desert. Whose Inhabitants for their manner of Fight were Notorious, who in a coun∣terfeited flight discharged their Arrows backward upon their pursuing Enemies.

(11) The Wealthy Arab] Those of Arabia faelix, Ara∣bia being divided into three Portion; viz. Petrea, Desert, and Faelix. Arabia Petrea is on the West bounded with part

Page 97

of Syria, on the North with Palestine, India, & part likewise of Syria, on the South Sinu Arabico Interiori, on the East part∣lie by Arabia faelix, partly by Aarbia desert: The last of which, on the North is terminated by Mesopotamia, along the River Euphrates, •…on the East by Babilonia, and part of the Persian Gulf, on the South by Mountains running a∣long the Borders of Arabia felix, on the West by part of Syria and Arabia Petrea. Arabia faelix hath on the North Arabia Petrea, and Desert, and part of the Persian Gulf: On the West Sinus Arabicus, on the South the Red Sea, and on the East part of the Persian Gulf, as far as the Pro∣montory Sagarus. Vet. Ptol. l. 5. Cosm.
(12) and (13)

Those juices which the Noble Sweves inclined]
Near the cold North in Groves Hercynian find]
The Sweves are a People of Germany, who although (as Tacitus reports de moribus Germaniae) they are by one ge∣nerall Name called Suave, yet are they not one Nation. Of these the most ancient and noble (as he says) were the Semnones, who accounted themselves as the head of the S•…avians. The Posterity of these, inhabited that Northern Tract of Germany, which is at this day called Swaben. Peu∣cirrus is of opinion, that the Swedes and these were one Na∣tion, there being but one letters difference in their names; but others think otherwise, and most make them the off∣spring of the Suiones, or Sueones, the ancient Inhabitants of that Land, which is at this day called Swethland, and not of the Suave, or those of Swaben. Hercynia is the most cele∣brated Forest of Germany (if not of the World) of which thus Pliny: In the Forest of Hercynia, there are mighty Oaks which seem to be untouched with the Injury of time, of

View Image - Page 98
Page 98

equal Birth and Age with the World, with the encountering of whose spreading Roots whole Hills are lifted up; And when they run above ground, writhing themselves into such Arches, that Troops of Horse may posse under them. Seated (according to Ptolomy) in the very midst between Gabri∣ta Sylva, and the Sarmacian Mountains.
(14) Aemonian Ethos] Ethos is a mountain and Pro∣montory of Thessaly, called Aemonian, Aemonia being a name of Thessaly derived from Aemon the son of Duca∣lion, as Thessaly from Thessalus the son of the said Aemon, at first called Pyrrhaea, from Pyrrha the wife of Deuca∣lion.

(15) Pangaeus Top,] Pangaeus is a Promontory of Thrice, respecting Macedonia. So Pliny makes it. Others a Moun∣taine of Macedonia near to the City of Philippe. Orteli∣us says it was likewise called Pieria, and antiently Carma∣nius.

(16) These Tygris nourished] Tygris is a River arising in the greater Armenia from a clear spring in a plain ground, whence running and passing through the lake Are∣thusa, he meets with the Mountain Taurus in his way; at the foot whereof in a Cave he sinks under ground, and ari∣ses again on the other side of the mountain, from whence maintaining his course through Thospita Palus, he waters a great part of Asia; and at length with two divided streams, false into the Persian Golf; a river of a most swift and violent Current, whence it takes its name; which in the Persian Tongue signifies an Arrow. Now called Tigill.

(17) The fam•…d Hydaspes] Hydaspes is a River of India, arising from the Mountain •…aus, and falling into the great River Induce, celebrated for the Treasure of his streams.

(18) And Baits whence it's land a name did get.] Baits (now by the Spaniards called Gua•…al quiver) is a River of

Page 99

Spain, running through that part thereof which in ancient times was called Hispania Baetica from the River, now, Granado; discharging his Streams into the Spanish O∣cean.
(19) Birds of inauspicious flight.] In the Original it is obscaenas aves, referring to the nature of the Fowls, as the Kite, Jay, Night-Raven, &c. (as follows) which were A∣ves inauspicatae. And so the version may posse.

(20) Dark Chaos, &c.] Chaos by the Poets is diversely taken; sometimes for the Air, sometimes (as here, and in the beginning of the first Act, is meant) for the Infernal Mansion. Properly for that confused Mas•…e, out of which, this Mundaine Fabric, by the Act of Love, was educ'd, called by the Platonists the undigested World. Some Philo∣sophers (though otherwise famous) have dreamed that this Chaos was companion with Demogorgon, and assistant to him, to the end that if at any time he should have an intent to pro∣duce Creatures, he m•…light not want mat•…er. As if he, that could give form to divers things, could not as well produce matter to inform. Boccace Geneolog. Deorum.

(21) Where sooty Dis resides] Dis with the Latines was the same as Pluto with the Greeks, so called (as Cicero intimates in his second Book De Nature Deorum) from the opulence and treasure of the earth, as from which all things take their original, and into which at l•…st they are again re∣solved; And therefore (as he says) Omnis vis terrena at∣que Nature, Diti Patri dicata est. And may be the same (for ought I know) with the Demogorgon of the Hermetical Philosophers.

View Image - Page 100
Page 100

(22)
From his wheeling Rack]
A while releast, rest let Ixion have]
Ixion attempting to force the Chastity of Iuno, Iupi∣la substituted a Cloud in her likeness; of which, he was reported to beget the Centaurs; when afterword boasting that he had known the Queen of the Gods, he was for that struck down to Hell with a Thunder-bolt, and con∣tinually turned about upon a restless wheel; to which he was bound fast with Snakes.

(23) And Tantalus sup free the fleeting Wave.] Tantalus either for that when he feasted the Gods, he set before them the limbs of his Son Pelops, (in a most inhumane man∣ner) as part of the Banquet, or else in that being admitted to the Council of the Celestialls he revealed their secrets, was thrust into Hell, and set up to the Chin in the River Eridanus, where thirsting, and hungry, he vainly catches at the flying streams, and dangling fruit which avoids his reach.

(24) Let Sysiphus his Torments find no ease.] Sysiphus was the Son of Aeolus, and Father of Croon, and there∣fore Medea wishes a continuation of his Torments, who in∣festing Attica with Robberies, was at last slain by Theseus, and feigned in Hell to roll a weighty stone up a steep Hill, which still when at the top tumbles down again upon him.

(25)

You who in perforated Vrnes, still vain]
Still vain successelesse Toil deludes, &c.]
These were the fifty daughters of Danaus, who of their. Grandfather B•…lus were called Belides; these by the appoint∣meant

Page 101

of their Father slew their Husbands the sons of their Uncle Aegyptus, the first night they lay with them, (and therefore here especially called upon by Medea) for which they are said to be punished in Hell by pouring of Water in∣to a vessel full of holes, which they drew up likewise with Buckets pierced or bored through in the same manner.
(26) Drenched both the Bears in the forbidden Deep.] The greater Bear called Holice, and the lesser Cynosure are two Constellations included within the Arctic Circle, into which the Poets feigned Calysto, and her son Arses were by the favour of Iupiter converted: which Iuno maligning entreated Tethys and Oceanus that they would not suffer them (as other stars) to set in their Waters. (It being the opinion of the Ancients, that the setting stars did descend into the Sea) upon which her request, they were interdi∣cted the Ocean; yet by Medea (as she here boalts) notwith∣standing drenched in the forbidden Waves, Vet. Ovid. Metam. l. 2.

(27)

To thee this Wreath of nine]
Embraided Serpents, &c.]
With a Wreath of Serpents the Witch Erictho Crowns her self in Lucan. l. 6. The number Nine by the Pythagori∣•…ns was held sacred, and the perfectest of all Numbers, as consisting of three Ternaries, each of which is divided into three Unities, and therefore in holy Ceremonies (as in Ma∣gecko Rites) the ancients superstitiously conceived that the Deity was affected with its imparitie. Of the Magical ver∣tu of Arithmetical or Musical Numbers, see Del Rio, Dis∣quisic. Magic. l. 1. c. 2. Qu•…sp. 2.

View Image - Page 102
Page 102

(28)
Lo his biform'd limbs, durst band]
Against Joves high Empire; bold Typhaeus.]
Of Typhaeus we have spoken already, here said to have biform'd Limbs, in that the Giants that warred against the Gods (of whom Typhaeus was one) were feigned to have the feet of Dragons. Pindarus in 4. Olym calls Typhon 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 i. e. Centicipitem, hundred-headed.

(29)

These Plumes found we cast]
By rapefull Harpies as by Zetes chased.]
He siod makes the Harpies to bee but two in number; Virgil three. Their names Aello, Ocypete, and Caeleno, feig∣ned to be winged, with Virgins faces, and Vultures claws; the Mythology of which, see in Gyraldus his Syntagma 6 Deorum & Natal. Comes l. 7. c. 6. These were chased away from Phineus the old, blind and needy King of Paph∣lagonia by Calais and Zetes the Sons of Bores, who were said to have wings, (the Fable of which read in the seventh of Ovids Metamorphosis) Propter nimiam veloci∣totem corum qui ad Boream habitant; and for that reason, or their Celerity in Execution of designs may seem to bee invited by the Argonauticks in the expedition to Colchos. Nor doe the names given to those youths unaptly suit with the Sons of the Wind, Zetes being so called 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 quote nimium flet, & Calais ut qui 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 quia leniter flet. Tretzes in lycophron.



Page 103

(30)
Those be the wings the wounded Stymphald Boar,]
Slain by the Shafts dipped in Lernean Gore.]
The Stymphalides were filthy Fowls, feeding upon mans flesh, taking their name from a Lake in Arcadia; these Her∣cules chased away with the sound of a Brazen Instrument, made by Vulcan, and given him by Pallas; here said to bee slain by his poisonous Arrows. Pausanias in Arcadicis re∣ports that in the Deserts of Arabia, there were such kind of Fowls no less terrible to Travellers then Lyons or Leo∣pards, who with their Beak would strike through Armour; from whence they found a means afterword to take them by inventing a kind of Coverture for the body, through which when the Foul had struck their Beaks, they were there as in a Gin detained.

(31) The Altars sound, &c.] This was a sign of He∣cates approach (among witches) and answering of their Magical Invocations, which was always attended with Earth-quakes, and the horrid noise of howling-Dogs. See after what is said at the number 44.

(32) See Trivia's whirling Carre, &c.] Trivia is a name of Hecate, or Diana, of whom wee have already spoken: so called either in regard of her Triple Course under the Zodiac, according to her Height, Latitude or Longitude, or else in that she in said to be President over Cross Ways or 〈◊〉; The Patroness of Witches; whose Chariot de∣scending was another Sign likewise of the Concession of their requests. Vide Ovid. Met. l. 7. de Medea.

(2•…) Vexed with Thesalian charms, &c.] Thessaly was a Country famous (or rather infamous) for Enchantments and Magic Arts; insomuch as Pliny notes, lib. 30. c. 1. That the general practice of those Arts in that Country,

View Image - Page 104
Page 104

gave a more peculiar Name or Title to Magic, being stiled Ars Thessalica.
(34)

With strange horror fright]
The World]
That the ancients were took with fear and terror, at the Eclipse of the Moon is apparent in History, to omit o∣theirs, I shall only give one memorable Instance out of Cor∣nelius Tacitus in the first of his Annals, which for the good effect it wrought is worthy the reciting: In the Rebellion stirred up by Perceanius and Vibe•…lenus, against Blesus Lieu∣tenant General of the Legions in Pannonia, in the begin∣ning of Tyberius his Reign, when the Soldiers were in the Height of their disorder, and menaced the greatest out∣rage. The Moon on a sudden began to be Eclipsed, which the Soldiers (ignorant of the Cause) construed as a Pre∣sage of present Ill-Luck, and comparing their Attempts to the Eclipse, were of Opinion, that their success should be prosperous, if the Goddess should become bright again. Whereupon they began with Trumpets, Cornets, and other Brazen Instruments, to make a loud Noise; now sad, now joyful, as the Moon appeared clear or dark: but when the Clouds rising, took from them the fight of the Moon, supposing she had been hid in darkness, and utterly lost her light, they began to lament, complaining that that porten∣ded their labours should have no End, and that the Gods turned their Faces from their Wickedness. Whereupon Caesar Drusus, who was sent by the Emperor to appease them, and whom in a hostile manner they had environed in the Camp, thinking it fit to make his Advantage of their Fears, so wrought that he composed the Sedition, and cau∣sed the Ring-leaders to be put to death. A Rebellion happily ended!



Page 105

(35)
Whilst thy Extremes to ease, O Great]
Dictynna, rich Corinthian Brass is beat]
Dictynna is one of the names of Diana, so called as some conceive, in that she first invented Toils and Nets for hun∣ting; or as others think, aslum'd by her in memorial of the Nymph Britomart, her belov d fellow Huntress, who fly∣ing from the Pursuit of her Lover Minos, to avoid his Sir∣prise leapt into the Sea, and fell into a fish-Net, whence she was called Dictynna, and by that name after worshipped as a Goddess, which Diana likewise in memory of her, vouch∣safed to make one of her Attributes.

Of the beating of Kettles, Basins, and other Brazen Vessels used by the Ancients when the Moon was Eclip∣sed (which they did to drown the Charms of Witches, that the Moon might not hear them, and so be drawn from her Sphere as they supposed) I shall not need to speak, be∣ing a thing so generally known, a Custom continued a∣mong the Turks to this day; yet I cannot but add, and wonder at, what Ioseph Scaliger in his Annotations upon Manilius, reports out of Bonincontrius, an Ancient Com∣mentator upon the same Poet: Who affirms, That in a Town of Italy where he lived (within these two Centu∣ries of years) he saw the same Piece of Paganism 〈◊〉 upon the like Occasion.

(36) [And here our Author cannot be excused of an Ana•…ronisme, since Corinthian Brasse in Medea's time, was of no more value then any other, untill (as Pliny writes, l. 34. c. 1.) The Citie of Corinth being taken and burnt by the Romans in the 156 Olympiall, and 607 yeares after the buil∣ding of the Citie of Rome, divers Brazen Statua's being melted, with other Vessells of Gold and Silver in that gene∣rall

View Image - Page 106
Page 106

Conflagration, and mixing together, from thence arose that celebrated vaine of Brasse, so much esteem'd of by the Romans, that, (as our fore-cited Author reports) they held it to be in value, ante argentum, ac penè etiam ante Anrum.
(37)

Upon this blood-stai•…'d Turfe our Sacrifice]
To thee Wee make]
It was the manner of the Ancient Witches to offer their •…ellish Sacrifices on an Altar of Turf, digging a Trench a∣bout it (which they commonly did with their Nails) and therein to pour the blood of a Black Lamb, for, Negro Tri∣form Hostia mactatur Deae—says Silius Ital. l. 1. Medea, to make her Sacrifice more horrid, empties her own veins (as in the following Verses) to supply that devilish Ceremony. But of the manner of these Sacrifices, hear Apollonius, l. 3. Argonautic•…n.

〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉
When humid Night just half her Course hath run,
Go to the untroubled Brooke, where washed, alone,
Clad in a sable Vesture, dig a Pit.
Then of a female Lamb the Throat strait slit,

Page 107

And o'er the Pit a Pile erected, fire.
And, the crude victim lay thereon entire;
Then Perseus sole-borne Hecate appease
Wit poured on honey wrought by labouring Bees.
And (that thy Work may with success be signed)
With Prayers propitiate her sterner Mind;
Which done; Go from the flaming Pile; Nor let
The Noise of barking Dogs, or trampling Feet
Make thee on that revert thy look again,
If so, thy Sacrifice proves all in vain.
(38)

This funeral Torch supplies]
Nocturnal fires, snatched from the flaming Pile]
The Lamiae of ancient times used to burn Lights in their Nefandous Mysteries, observed likewise by those of latter times, in whose Conventions (as Delrius reports) Ignis ac∣census erat ut plurimùm Teter & horridus; Nor would any Torch or Brand serve them so well in their infernal Rites, as that which was snatched from a Funeral Pile. Remigius in his second Book of Daemonolatreia, c. 3. relates a most Prodigious story of two modern Witches, who having dug up two buried Carcases, and burnt them to Ashes all but the right Arm of one of them; made thereof a Torch to give light to their Acts of darkness; The fingers ends of the dissected Arm all the while they were about their de∣villish Work burning with a blew and Sulphury flame: Which when the flame, (their Ceremonies done) was ex∣tinguished, remained notwithstanding entire, and as if un∣touched by the fire.

View Image - Page 108
Page 108

(39) To thee our head We toss with neck bowed, &c.] The Gestures, and Actions which were used by the ancient Witches in their Ceremonies, Adorandi gratia were most preposterous, perpetuated by the Maintainers of their ab∣horrid Arts at this day; who in their Conventions, when they adore the Devil President of their meeting, doe it as Del Rius reports, l. 2. Q. 16. with their back towards him, not bowing their heads downward, but tossing them up, and reclining them backward, so that their Chins respect the Heavens.
(40) That thus O Parses, &c. Hecate; so called, being the Daughter of Perseus, and Niece of Iupiter; or as some will, the Daughter of Iupiter and Asteria. Bacchylides says, she was—〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. Daughter of Torch-bearing, large bosomed Night.

(41)

He who rues his heavenly theft with still]
Renewed liver]
Of Prometheus being bound to the Mountain Caucasus, where an Eagle still tired upon his Liver we have in part al∣ready spoken, a Fable sufficiently known, yet was he at length by Iupiter releast from thence, though the God to save his oath cause one of his fingers to be bound with a hoop or Ring of Iron made of a piece of his Chain, and in it a stone taken from the Mountain to which he was bound. From hence (as Pliny writes in the Proem of his 38 book) came the Custom of wearing Rings, in memory of Prome∣thens, at the first made of Iron, and so along time worn by the Romans afterword of gold. Vet. Salmuth. Pincer. l. 1.

(42) The Triple-shap'd Chimera &c.] Chimera by Full∣gentius, is thus described: A Monster of a triple form, the fore-parts representing a Lyon, the midst a Goat, and the

Page 109

hinder parts a Dragon. Solinus writes that the Chimera was not a Beast but a Mountain of Lycia, ejecting flames from the top thereof, near which Lyons were wont to har∣bore; in the midst were fields in which Goats used to feed, and the bottom was infested with Serpents. Lycophrons Pa∣raphrastes says otherwise, who makes Chimera to be a wo∣man of that name, the Daughter of Amisodarns Governor of Lycia, who with her two Brothers Drace and Leo, having seized upon certain Straits or Passages, spoiled and slew all that travelled that way. These 3 in that they joined together unanimously to the Ruin of others, gave occasion of the Fable of this triple-shap'd Monster, as the usual ordering of their Forces, the positure of their shapes. For in the Front, or Van, Leo still fought, in the midst or battle, Chimera, and in the Rear Draco. Bellerophon having vanquished these in fight, was therefore feigned to have slain this Monster. Vet. Plut. in l. de Virtutibus Mulier de Bollerophonte et Chimera.
(43) Medusa's Gall, &c.] Medusa was the daughter of Phorcus, who had besides her two other Daughters, their names were Euriale and Sthenio, these inhabited the Islands called Dorcades in the Aethiopick Sea opposite to Hesperi∣des; they were said to have but one eye in common amongst them, Snaky Tresses, Tusks like Boars, Brazen hands, and Golden wings. Some say they were all of admirable & equal form, and beauty, & on whom who ever looked, were struck with admiration, and stupisying astonishment; from whence sprung the Fable, that the sight of them converted men into Stones. Called Gorgons (as some think) of their nimbleness and agility. There be who report (if this be not the greater Fiction) that in Libya there is a kind of Beast called a Gore∣gon, not much unlike to a Sheep, his head shaggy with hair hanging over his eyes, when shaking his hair from his eyes, and erecting his head, he kills those that see him, with his

View Image - Page 110
Page 110

very look. The hair of Medusa (which was once her greatest ornament) was by Pallas converted into Snakes, as a punishment inflicted upon her for suffering her self to be abused by Neptune in her Temple: Her Snake-hair'd∣head was afterword cut off by Perseus, and by him in the Constellation is held forth, called the Devils head, and Ca∣put Algol. Vet. Ovid. Met. l. 3. & 4. Natal. Comet, l. 7. c. 12.
(44) Our Prayers are heard; thrice Hecat' barked aloud]

Thrice with sad flames her sacred fires she showed.]

Medea's Prayers are ratified by the barking of Hecate, and her Hell-hounds, (for no better attendance doe the Poets al∣low her then a company of howling Cures, one of the sig∣nils of her approach, which is thus expressed by Virgil l. 6. Aeneidos.

—Mugire solum & juga caepta moveri
Sylvarum; visaeque canes ululare per umbram
Adventante Dea—
The Center bellowed, the Woods bowed their Crown,
And Dogs were heard run howling up and down
At Hecates approach.—
As likewise by Fulguration, and the sad light of her In∣fernall Fires, which was another token of her coming. Yet the Poets make the unusual and sudden splendour of Flames to be a general signal of the Advention of any of the Deities as well as of her. For so Claudian l. 1. de Rap. Pr•…s designs the approach of Phoebus: So likewise in his fourth of his Metam. Ovid ushers the coming of Bac∣choose, and Plautus in Amphytrione the appearance of Iupiter

(45) Bloody Maenas] Meant by Medea, hurrying up and down like a frantic Bacchanal.

(46) Through Ganges Forest.] Some Forests of India near Ganges, the greatest River of that Country, which it divides in the midst, taking his rise from the Scythian Mountains, the Northern Boundures of India.


Page 111


ANNOTATIONS Upon the fifth ACT.
(1)

Would an Issue from my Womb]
As numerous as Niobe's had come, &c]
OF the number of Niobe's Children there be several re∣ports, Homer reckons but seven (sons and daughters) Euripides fourteen, Sappho eighteen, Bacchilides and Pin∣darus twenty; others say they were but three in all. Tzetzes yet reckons seven sons and seven daughters by their names; viz. the sons Sypilus, Agenor, Phaedimus. Ismenes, Euphytus, Tantalus, Damasicthon. The Daughters Near, Cleodoxe, Astioche, Phacta, Pelopia, Eugige, and Chloris. Of the death of her and her children, and her conversion into Marble, see Ovid's Metam. l. 6. Pausanias de Arcadicis. Palaephatus de non credendis fabulis.

(2)

Thus with this Victim, we appease]
Thy iujur'd Ghost.]
This said, s•…e kills one of her Children, as a Sacrifice to her Brothers Ghost. Alciat hath a pretty Emblem taken from Archias the Greek Poet, upon the Statue of Medea killing her Children, in whose Bosom a Bird built her nest.

Colchido•… in gremio nidum quid congeris? •…heu
Nescia cur pullos tam male credis avis?
View Image - Page 112
Page 112

Dira parens Medea, la saevissima Natos
Predidit, & speras parcat ut isle tuos?
Amble. 54.
Poor Bird, that know not where thou builst thy nest!
Trust'st thou thy young ones to Medea's breast?
Her cruel hands, shed her own Childrens blood,
And dost thou hope that she will spare thy brood?
Yet Aelian in the fifth Book of his Various Histories, ca. 21.) seems to assoile her of the murder of her children; there be some (says he) who report that the rumour con∣corning Medea is false, and that not she but the Corinthians made away her children, that Tragical Fable owing its ore∣ginall to Euripides, who at the request of the Corinthians, transferred the murder of the Children from them to their Mother; Truth in process of time giving place to Fiction; who says further, that it was a common fame in his days, that the Corinthians used to offer Expiatory Sacrifices as a Tribute to the Ghosts of the slain Children.

(3)

Go, mount the skies, and by thy flight declare]
(If thou unpunished goe'st) no Gods there are.]
From Corinth, drawn by her winged Dragons, Medea flies to Athens, where she married Aegeus, and had by him a son called Medus; whom likewise afterword, (attempt∣ting to poison his Son Theseus, that so the Kingdom of Athens might descend to her Son Medus, and being dete∣cted) she leaves, and by flight returns to Colchos, which (her Father being dead) she recovered, and (as Symonides writes) the Kingdom of Corinth likewise: who though in her life so wicked, yet after her death was by the Colchians ho∣noured with Divine Rites, who Dedicated a Temple to her Memory, into which, in regard of Iasons Ingratitude) no men were permitted to enter.

    FINIS.


Page [unnumbered]

[1] •…e{que} 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 esse Inter pretationem tantum volo. s. d circa•…sdem Sensus certa∣men at{que} aemu∣lationews. Quintil. l. 10 c. 5.
[*] Proeses Puer∣perii, se•… Prae∣fact Parturi∣entibus.
[*] Proserpina.
[*] Creusa the Daughter of Croon King of Corinth, whom Iason (repudiating Medea) had newly marri∣ed. Euripides (in Medea) & some others give her the name of Gl•…uca.
[*] See the An∣notations at the number (11) in fine.
[*] As opposed to Medea's Nuptial•…, which were 〈◊〉 and Illegiti∣mate; 〈◊〉 in 〈◊〉 〈◊〉 of this Chorus.
[*] Iason.
[*] The Bride.
[*] The Marri∣age Song.
[*] As great a King as Cre∣on.
[*] Medea.
[*] Spoken Ironically.
[*] 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. Eurip. Medea.
[*] Jason.
[*] As Iason.
[*] Son of Pe∣lia•….
[*] Iason.
[18] Sirens. vet. Annot.
[*] Mede•….
[20] Two Rocks in the mouth of the Upon∣tick Straits that were feigned to be loose, and justly one a∣another.
[*] Iason spo∣ken in scorn.
[*] Medea sup∣posing her self to be so counted in the opinion of Croon.
[*] Spokeni▪ derision.
[*] To wit, her self, ut supr•….
[*] Croon.
[*] 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉. Euripid. Med.
[*] The Cyan or Simple∣gades, Rocks in the mouth of the Upon∣tick Strait{us}.
[*] The sleep∣less Dragon, that kept the Golden fleece
[*] O•… Danube∣us or Ester we have spoken in the Annot. upon the Chorus to the third Act.
[*] Vestit•… d'•…a 〈◊〉 af∣•…ta; So By•…hace de∣scribing De∣mogor. in Ge•…al. del Iddio.
[31] —Heeate turns variate figures, Clau∣diau.
[*] See the An∣tations upon the Chorus to the third Act, at the number. (20)
[*] Vet. ibid. Number. (20)
[*] In the Ore∣ginall it is Tristis Ramus, which I have rendered Withered, as moved by the Authority of B•…n Iohnson, whom see in his Notes upon his Ma•…ke of Witches.
[*] A frow of Bacchus or Bacchanal, so called of the •…rantick Furv that possessed them.
[*] In the La∣tine it is Sa∣cro cultro: see the reason why I so ren∣der it in B•…n. Iohnson his No es upon his Mask of Witches, ut supra.
[*] •…id qu•… ad 〈◊〉 37. Ann. t.
[*] Croon.
[*] Croon and Iason.
[*] Creusa the new Bride, & Croon her Father.
[*] Creusa the new Bride, & Croon her Father.
[*] By Medea.
[43] Here her frantic fant∣sie presents unto her the Furies, and her Brothers Ghost.
[*] Stabs one of her Sons.
[*] Iason with∣in, preparing a Guard to apprehend her.
[*] At these words by the Machine of the Scene she was immedi∣italy taken up to the top of the house.
[*] Kills her o•… there Son.
[*] Throws their bodies down.
