A Rehearsal both strange and true, of heinous and horrible ac∣tes committed by Elizabeth Stile, Alias Rockingham, Mother Dutten, Mo∣there Devil, Mother Margaret, Four noto∣rios Witches, apprehended at winsore in the County of Barks. and at Ebbing∣ton arraigned, condemned, and executed, on the 26 day of February last Anno. 1579.

Imprinted at London for Edward White at the little North-doore of Paules, at the sign of the Gun, and are there to be sold.



The Reader
AMong the punish∣mentes which the Lord GOD hath laid upon vs, for the manifest imp∣tie and careless con∣tempt of his word, abounding in these our desperate days, the swear∣mes of Witches, and Enchanters are not the last nor the least. For that old Serpent Satan, suffered to be the scourge for our sins, hath of late years, greatly multiplied the brood of them, and much en∣creased their malice. Which prac∣tize, he hath the more easily perfor∣med for that wholesome remedies, provided for the curing of such can∣cares,

are either never awhit, or not rightly applied: For albeit the In∣sticer bee severe in executing of the Laws in that behalf, yet such is the foolish pity, or slackness, or doth of the multitude and under of∣ficers that they most commonly are winked at, and so escape vnpuni∣shed, to the dishonour of God, and imminent danger on his Ma∣jests liege people. Nay the fond∣nes and ignorance of many is such, that they succour those Devilish Imps, have recourse to them for the health of themselves or others, and for things lost, calling them by the honourable name of wise wo∣men. Wherein they know not what honour they doe to the devil. For it is Satan, that doth all that ply∣geth with sickness, that mayneth,

Murdered, and Robbed, and at his lust restores. The Witch bears the name, but the devil dispatches the deeds, without him the Witch can contrive no mischief. He with∣out the Witch can work treason to much, to oft, and to soon. If then by the law of the Lord of life, Witches, and Enchanters, are ac∣counted unworthy to live. If by the law of this Land, they are to be done to death, as Traitors to their Prince, and felons in respect of her highness subjects, whosoever thou be, beware of aiding them, go not with Sale the reprobate to ask coū∣sail of them, neither for Christiani∣tie sake, seem to be more slack in a good purpose, then Cicero the Eth∣nique, who plainly advises that Witches Poisoners. &c. are to be
rather shut up in prison, and tied with fetters, then moved to amend with counsel, and perswasi∣once, only afterwards suf∣feared to escape where∣by they may renew their malicious, and treason∣noble drif∣tes.


1579. January the 28. day.

The true examination and Confession of Elizabeth Stile, alias Rockyngham uttered at the Gaol of Reading, in the County of Bark▪ im∣mediately after his apprehension in the presence of the per∣sons herafter men∣tioned.
ELiazbeth Stile ali. Rose∣kingham, late of Wind∣sore widow, of the age of lxv. years, or there about being apprehended at Windsor before said, and brought personally before the right worshipful Sir Henry Neuell knight being by him examined, and found by manifest and undeniable proofs of her honest neighbours to be a lewd, malicious, and hurtful woman to the people and inhabitants thereabouts, was thereupon committed to the common Gaol of Reading, there to remain until the next great

Assizes, there to bee holden that his offence might be more straightly sifted, and she the of∣fender to receive the guerdon due for his deem∣rites. Whither when she was come, and mo∣ued by the Gailer there named Thomas Row to turn his self to God, from whom she had notoriously fallen, and mildly to bear the pu∣nishmente belonging to his deeds passed, and there withal urged in sign of his repentance, to confess his former follies and facts, she see∣med to have some remorse in conscience, and desired to have some talk with the said Tho∣mas Row. To whom with one Iohn knight the Constable Ihon Griffith an Inholder, and one William Printall being all four present she confessed as follows.

And first concerning those persons that practice the damnable art of Witchcraft, Sorcery, or Enchantment of her own cor∣taine knowledge, and voluntary motion, she uttered to this effect ensuing.
IN Primis that one father Rosimonde, dwelling in Farneham Parish, be∣yng a widower, and also a daughter of his, are both Witches or Enchanters, which Rosimōd she saith hath and can transform himself by Devilish means, into the shape and likeness of any beast whatsoever he will.

2 Item, that one Mother Dutten dwelling


within one Hoskins in Cleworthe Parish, can tell every ones message, as soon as she sees them approach ne'er to the place of his abroad, and further, she keeps a Spirit or Fiend in the likeness of a Toad, and faded the same Fiend lying in a border of greene Herbs, within her Garden, with blood which she cau∣seth to issue from her own flank.
[Figure: ]
3 Item, that one Mother Devil, dwelling nigh the Pond in Windesore aforesaid, bee∣yng a very poor woman, hath a Spirit in the shape of a Black Cat, and calls it Gill▪ whereby she is aided in her Witchcraft, and she daily feeds it with Milk, mingled with her own blood.


4 Item, that one Mother Margaret dwell∣ling in the Alms house at Windesore, goes with two Crouches, does feed a Kitlyng or Fiend by her named Ginnie, with croum∣mes of bread and her own blood.
5 Item, the said Elizabeth Stile, alias Rockyngham, of her self confesses that she the same Elizabeth, until the time of her appre∣hension, kept a Rat, being in very deed a

wicked Spirit, naming it Philip, and that she fed the same Rat with blood, issuing from her right hand wrist, the marks where∣of evidently remain, and also that she gave her right side to the Devil, and so did the residue of the Witches before named.

And thus far for the touching the persons before mentioned in general, now rests her declaration of their detestable drifts, and devises in particular.
6 Furthermore, she confesses that when she was apprehended, Mother Margaret came to her and gave her money, charging her in any wise not to detect their secretes, which if she this prisoner did, the said Mother Margaret threatened that she should be hardly entreated.

7 And moreover, she says that Father To∣simōd, with his daughter, mother Dutten, mo∣there Devil, Mother Margaret, and her self the said Elizabeth Rockingham, did accustom to meet within the backside of Master Dod∣ges in the Pits there, and did in that place conclude upon heinous, and villainous practises, such as by them, or any of them before had bin devised, or determined.

8 Also she says, and confesses that they all purposed and agreed, by their Sorceries, and Enchantment's, to dispatch privily one Lanckforde a Farmor, dwelling in Wind∣sore by the Thames side, and that they murde∣red
him accordingly.
9 They also by their devilish art, killed one Master Gallis, who in times paste, had been Mayor of Windesore.

10 The like they practised against one of the said Lanckfordes maids, whom by the m•mischevious means above expressed they be∣reft of life.

11 Likewise a Butcher named Switcher, escaped not their treachery, but was by their Witchcraft brought to his grave.

12 Another Butcher named Mastlyn, was by them handled in such sort, that he consu∣med away.

13. The manner of their Enchantment, whereby four of the persons before named were murdered was thus: Mother Dutten made four pictures of Red Wax, about a span long, and three or four fingers broad for Lanckforde, for his Maid, for Master Gallis, and for Switcher, and the said Mo∣there Dutten, by their counsel and consent,

did stick an Hawthorn prick, against the left sides of the breasts of the Images, directly there where they thought the hearts of the per∣sons to bee set, whom the same pictures did represent, and thereupon within short space, the said four persons, being suddenly ta∣ken, died.
14 As for Mastlyn the fifth man, she confess∣seth that he was bewitched, but howe or when∣there he dyed or no she utters not.

15 Further the same Elizabeth says, that her self did kill one Saddocke with a clap on the shoulder, for not keeping his promise for an old Cloak, to make her a Saffegarde, who presently went home and died.

16 Further she says, that she and every of them▪ did suer speak one Humfrey Ho•ie and his wife, and one Richard Milles, and one Ihon Mathynglise, that they lay sick in a strange order a long time, but they were reco∣uered again.

17 Further she says, that mother Devil did over speak one William Foster a Fi∣sher,

and one Willies wife a Baker.
18 Further she says, that mother Dutten did give one Picture, but she knows not when∣there it was of a manna, or of a woman, and the man that had it of her, she thinks to be dead, but she knows not his name.

19 Further she says, that one George Whittyng, servant to Matthew Glover of Eaton, had one Picture of her self for one Foe∣ster, for that the said George and Foster fell out at variance, and the Picture was made in mother Dottens house, and that mother Dut∣ten, Mother Devil, and her self were at the making, and that Mother Devil did say too her Buime, or evil Spirit, Plague him, and spare him not, and she did thrust a Hawthorn prick against the heart of him, and so he lay at the point of death a long time, but Mother Dutten recovered him again.

20 And in the end, they killed a Cow of his by their Witchcraft.

21 And further she says, that they and every of them, if any had angered them, they would go


to their Spirits and say, such a one hath an∣gred me, go do them this mischief, and for their hire, would give them a drop of their own blood, and presently the party was ply∣guide by some lamentable casualty.
22 Elizabeth Stile also confesses, that she her self hath gone to old Windsor, to the bed makers there, to beg a mess of Milk, which she could not have, for that the maid was then Milking, but her Rat had prove∣ded for her both Milk and Cream, against her coming home.

23 Elizabeth Stile touched with more re∣morse says, that Mother Dutten, & Mother Devil, were her first enticers to folly, and that she and every of them, did meet somety∣mes in master Dodges Pits, and sometime about a leuen of the Clock in the night at the Pound, and that Mother Dutten, and Mo∣there Devil did persuade her, to do as they had done, in forsaking God and his works, and giving her self to the Devil.

24 Elizabeth Stile confesses, her self often times to have gon to Father Rosimond house

where she found him sitting in a Wood, not far from thence, under the body of a Tree, sometimes in the shape of an Ape, and other∣whiles like an Horse. She also confesses her self to have turned a childes hand in Wind∣sor clean backwards, which was returned to the right place by Mother Dutten.
25 Further she says, that she will stand unto her death, to all and every Article before rehearsed: and that father Rosimond can trance∣form him self into the likeness of an Ape, or a Horse, and that he can help any manna so be∣witched to his health again, as well as to be∣witch.

26 Further she says, that mother Seidre dwelling in the Alms house, was the mistress Witch of all the rest, and she is now dead.

27 Further she says, that if she had bin so disposed, four or five, or more of the best men in Windsor, should not have brought her to the Gaol, but that she came of her own accord, and by the way as she came with Ihō Brom who brought her to the Gaol, her Bun or Familiar came to her in the likeness of a black

Cat, and would have had her away, but she banished him, hoping for favour.
Memorandum, that besides the examine∣tion, and confession aforesaid, there was given in evidence, viva voce, at the Arraignment of the said Witches, one special matter by an O∣stler of Windsor, who affirmed upon his oath that the said Mother Stile using to come to his Masters house, had often times relief given her by him. And on a time not long since, she coming to his Masters house, when there was little left to be given her, for that she came somewhat late, yet he giving her also some∣what at that time, she therewith not contented went her ways in some anger, and as it seemed offended with the said Ostler, for that she had no better Alms, and by the sequel, so it appe∣red. For not long after, he had a great ache in his limbs, that he was not able to take any rest, nor to doe any labour, and having sought many means for remedy thereof, could find none, at the last he went to a Wiseman, na∣med Father Rosimonde, alias Osborne, who told him that he was bewitched, and that there was many ill women in Windsor, and asked him whom he did mistrust, and the said Ost∣ler answered one Mother Stile, one of the

Witches aforesaid: well said the Wiseman, if you can meet her, and all to scratch her, so that you draw blood of her, you shall presently mend. And the said Osteler upon his oath de∣claret, that he watching her on a time, did all too scratch her by the face, that he made the blood come after, & presently his pain went a∣way, so that he hath bin no more grieved since.
Moreover, on a time a man Soon of Windsor, coming to fetch water at a well which was by the door of the said Mother Stile, and by chance hurling a s•one upon her house, she was there withal much gre∣ued and said, she would bee even with him, and took his Pitcher which he had brought from him: the boy going home wards, hap∣pined to meet with his father, and told him how that Mother Stile had taken away his Pitcher from him, well said his Father, you have done her some unhappiness, come on with me, and I will go speak with her. And so the boy going with his Father towards her house, did suddenly cry out: O my hand my hand, his father there withal looking back, and seeing his Sons hand to turn, and wend backwards, laid hold thereupon, but he was not able to staye the turning thereof,

besides a neighbour of his being in his com∣panie at that time, did also lay hold thereon, and notwithstanding both their strengths, the childes hand did turn backwards, and the palm thereof did stand, where the back did, to the grievous torment of the said child, and vexation of his Father: The which hand was turned again to his right place, either by the said father Rosimond, or the said Mo∣there Devil.
Also this is not to be forgotten, that the said Mother Stile, being at the time of her ap∣prehension▪ so well in health of body and limb∣mes, that she was able, and did go on foot, from Windsor unto Reading unto the Gaol, which are twelve miles distant. Shortly af∣la that she had made the aforesaid confession, the other Witches were apprehended, and were brought to the said Gaol, the said Mother Devil did so bewitch her and others (as she confessed unto the Jailer) with her Enchant∣mentes, that the use of all her limbs and sen∣ses, were taken quite from her, and her Toes did rot of her feet, and she was laid upon a Barrow, as a most ugly creature to be∣hold, and so brought before the Judges, at such time as she was arraigned.

    Finis.