A most wicked work of a wretched Witch, (the like whereof none can record these many years in England.) Wrought on the Person of one Richard Burred, Servant to Master Edling of Woodhall in the Parish of Pinner in the County of Middlesex, a mile beyond Harrow.

Lately committed in March last, An. 1592 and newly recognised according to the truth.  By G.B. master of Arts.


Printed by R. B. for William Barley and are to be sold at his shop in Gracious Street.

Hexafticon.

Of wrathful witches this same paphlet tells, How most of all on simple folk they work.What wonders to they may achieve by spells,God weed them out in every cell they lurk,Good weeds them out, but Satan still doth hatch,Fresh Imps, whereby of al sorts he may catch.
Leuit. 20.6.

If any turn after such as work with spirits and after soothsayers, to go a whoring after them, then will I set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.


A most wicked work of a wretched Witch, wrong on the person of one Richard Burred.

So long (right Gentle and courteous Reader) as wee live here in this wretched vale of …and miserable estate of our Probationership, we are all even the best of us all, to account no better of our selves, then that we live in a perpetual warrefare, and most dangerous and deadly combat. Our Enemies that we are to fight against are in number three: The world, the Flesh, and the Devil: two whereof not withstanding (such is our blind perseverance), the most part esteem their entire friends, whereas indeed they are the hande-mynisters of our Archenemy, all under colourable friship deceiving their familiars, and faking their death both of body and soul. Our grand foeman Satan Architect of all mischief, in Scripture has many proper names, to explain his malicious nature: Of his cruelty he is called Abaddon, a Destroier, bicase that not like a common enemy he is contented with the death and downfall of our bodies, but imagines utter destruction of the soul also, and intolerable torments toyntlie to them both: Of his craft he is termed a Thief, because he invented by what means he may … and unwittingly let upon the godly.  Of his malice is called Diabolus, an accuser, because evermore day and night he is busy, accusing the consciences of the righteous. He is named Dragon of his policy, because that since


the time of Adam, among to many thousands, in so many years, there hath been found none to wise or wary, that could withstand his stratagerns, but he hath wounded and poisoned them well nigh unto death.    He hight a Lion also of his power, because that as the solide body of the Lion is powerful: to especially consists great strength and power in his tail. We doubt not this advensarie, of Apollyon of ours of himself is mighty, puissant, and strong enough against ach aintie towards, and wilful flo-backs as we are, yet to make his victory more sure, and not fail of his purpose, he breath also the force of his tail : that is, his inhaled bondflaues, whom he hath sealed to execute his will and pleasure upon the harmless, which is performed many times divers and sundry ways: neither doth he to bluaily thew his policy, puissance and power by any his oficers, as he doth by subtle [?demen] of face bodrine, and enchanting sorcerers: the one in stead of instruments to inuelgle the mind and soul, the other to assail the ino talibodie, and beguile and untrappe the senses. I speak nothing of those plendoldmen, but I purpose (God willing) to treat of damnable Witches, of their spite and spells, odious in the fight of God, betsted of the good, and most hurtful to themselves, manifesting what power and prominence through Gods permission , that father of sin Satan hath over sinful worldlings. About Shrouetide last, one Richard Burred, servant to a Gentleman, named M. Edling, dwelling at Woodhall in the parish of Pinner in Middlesex, a mile beyond Harrow on the Hill, going to his masters barn, standing at the Towns end, accompanied with a great massive dog, suddenly espied an Hare dart before him, and thinking to have let his dog at her, missed of his purpose: for the dog not only refused to follow, but in stead of following began to faint, and run round about his master, and

to whine pitifully, as who should say that hind of game was not for them: The man taking hearty grace himself, followed to nigh, that he saw her take in at one Mother Atkins house, whom before that time he knew to be a notorious witch: Whereupon blessing himself, mindful of the name of God, he boldly said, avaunt witch. This was the first occasion (namely the terming of his a with) of al poor Richard Burts future tragedy: but to go forward.  It happened said Richard Burred a month after meeting his near to his masters barn, and giving her the time of the day, like a perverse woman, like a perilous wasp, like a pestiferous witch, incensed with hate at the sight of him held down his head, not baigning to speak. The next day which was on Wednesday the 8 of march, going again to his masters barn to thrath, a serve certain beasts, because he would not trudge too and fro for letting his work, carried his dinner with him, which was bread, butter, cheese and applypy, a bottle of the best beer: being come to the barn he laid his provision, and settled close to his business, labouring hard till twelve of the clock, at which time hunger assailing and custom prevailing, he went to dinner, wherein he had not long continued, but there was opposite to his view a monstrous black Cat among the straw, which began to shake the straw, and to make a wad thereof.  The fellow being aghast start up with his applepie in his hand (for it had bin pity a poor hungry threther should have lost so good a repast) suddenly hearing a voice that commanded him, come away: Away quote he, whither that I come? The Spirit answering again, said: Come and leave thy vittles behind thee and thy knife also.  Poor simplicity keeping his applypy still in his hand, came to the barn bore, where suddenly he was hoisted up into the air, and carried over many fields, by the way elpyeng his my, plow a plowing, but not able to cal unto them, although he seemed to his memory most perfect: thence passing over to Harrow, where on the side of the hill there


is a great pond was drawn through it, and there left his hat which was a token of that torture) because he could stay in no place, but was violently rapt up the heel, and over the tops of the trees at Harrow Chruch, so far he absolutely remembers, but being haled further, he was taken (as he seems) into a place which was all fire, where was heard such lamentable howling and doleful crieng, as if all the damned fiends of hell had been tortured, and tormenten in that Limbo. You hear into how strange and passionate a place this Richard Burred was translated, now it remains to show with what Symptoms the place was furnished. First therefore (he affirms) it was exceeding yet replenished with more than Cymerian Darkness, plentiful in filthy odors and stenches, full of noise and clamours, insomuch that he seemed to hear infinite millions of discrepant noises, but saw nothing save only the fire which caused such unquenchable drouth in his stomach, that presently minding a penny he had in his purse: looked round about for an Alehouse where he might spend it.    Hearing therefore these foresaid voices, and thinking some of them had spake unto him, he answered saying, heer is no work for me to doo: immediately it was reanswered, coast away with him, but with this proviso thou pass that thou be secret, and say nothing when though come home: but he replied, and said, my mother will ask me where I have been: with that he was suffered to speak any further, but his tongue was doubled in his mouth, his legs burnt, hands and arms scorched, his coat pinched of his back, and thrown into the face, immediately foring over hedges and ditches, sowled in mire and dure, scotched with thorns and briers, so singed and engulfed, that it is both lamentable and terrible to behold him. Being brought again to Pinner where his Payster doth dwell, he hath repaired to a ditch to drink, and afterwards


in this pickle biuted one of his acquaintance, whose sometime served M. Edling also: but whether he forted thither for that his friends house was nighest, or would not go home for shame that he had been absent four whole days together, I cannot show you: Only this, being Sundaing morning his master chanced (as his custom was to passé by that way to Church at that same instant, who not knowing poor Richard Burred his lost shape, demanded of his quondant servant if he had gotten him a man: a man sir quote he, why it is your man Richard: my man quoth the Gentleman, that cannot bee, and therewithal being half amazed made a pause and eanestliebiheld him, at length willing him in the name of God to tel where he had bin though he could not speak, yet having memory made signs and evermore pointed toward the house where mother Atkins did dwell, looking to griaie and fiercely that way, that he tore and rerit al that came in his hands. In the mean while, it was thought requisite, that the Parson of the town named M. Smith, and my, Burbridge of Pinner park gentleman should be sent for, who coming to the dumb man and pittieng his plight, the Parson charitably and like himself laboured about him, wrenched open his teeth got open his mouth, indented his finger under his tongue, and with much ado got it unfolded, the first words he spake were these: Woe worth mother Atkins, woe worth mother Atkins, for she hath bewitched me: whereupon he would not be quiet, but ever requested that he might speak with his. Master Burbidge and P. Smith caused his to bee sent for, who being present, he never cesed till he had scratched and drawn blood on his, persuading himself that was a remedy sufficient under God, that would make him well: neither was it or is it any Capital error, experience testifies: for since that he hath mended reasonably, and now goes to Church.

    Thus have you heard briefly the cares and crosses, that poor Richard Burred sustained (as they say) in summo gradu, the eigth, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh days of march last past, what time bee was absent from his master the foresaid whole days, and bled (as ye have heard) after the foresaid manner.    Then then leave we Richard Burred, but with mother Atkins we must prosecute a little further.    It is credibly reported in Pinner, that the said mother Atkins on a time resorting to the house of M. Burbidge for milk (at what time the maids were busy at the dairy and obtaining her desire, immediately upon his departure out of the doors, the Cream began to swell and rise in the cherne, that it burst open the top of the Cherne, and run about the kitchen and forth at the sinke-hole, and all their housewifery for that day went to wrack, that al was quite left, and nothing could possibly be well ordered.  Drebels towards God: enemies to mankind : caterpillars of a common wealth, the fire is too good to consume them. Many and sundry like actions of extreme rage and cruelty are imputed to her, only we will conclude, and shut up these clauses, with this that follows. Not long since the forenamed witch entering the ground of the Gregory Coulson, to crave some releeefe (for the lives of alms and good peoples charity) she found him busily employed about some country affairs, Radling his lambs (I think it was) and framing his petition to him, because he did not straight way leave al and accomplish it she flung forth in a fume: But it was not lunge after her departure, but he and finished his labour also, and letting forth two Lambs into a yard, suddenly they began so nimbly to skip and frilke to and fro, that they never ceased after till they died.

Finis