THE WITCHES OF NORTHAMPTONSHIRE.

Witches.
Agnes Browne.
Ioane Vaughan.
Arthur Bill.
Helen Ienkenson
Mary Barber.
Who were all executed at Northampton the 22. of July last. 1612.

LONDON, Printed by Tho: Purfoot, for Arthur Iohnson. 1612.

THE ARRAIGNment, Conviction and execution of certain Witches at Northampton, the 22. of July last past.
Amongst the rest of sins where-with the perfection of God is most of all displeased in the corruption of man, There is none (I suppose) more distasteful or detestable to his Purity, then this damnable and Devilish sin of Witchcraft; For that it seems to make an eternal separation, and an irreconcilable divorce betwixt the pure Mercies of God, and the tainted souls of such miserable people: Who for the most part, as they are of the meanest, and the basest sort both in birth and breding, so are they the most vncapeable of any instruction to the contrary, and of all good means to reclaim them.

But as there are many, that remain yet in doubt whether there be any Witches, or no, or any such spirits, who offer their service unto them, or rather who by fained service doe tyrannise over them: So to answer their doubts, would ask a greater labour, and perhaps more art, and better experience then I intend, or happily can show. Only this, that if neither those confutations that are already learnedly set forth, Nor ancient records of the Witches called Druids, in old time confined into the Isle of Man, nor the ordinary reports of the strange mischiefs done by the Witches of Norway might seem sufficient proofs of this matter: Yet me thinks that the common experience, which our learned and Reverend Judges of the Land, find daily in their yearly Circuits by the conuictions of suth offenders, and the plain and manifest Evidences brought in against them, who being in this this kind dangerously infected, have from time to time stood forth upon their Arraignment, and as their •…ues have been held to be the most detestable, so their deaths have been observed to prove the most desperate, might put it out of question, that some such there be abroad in the world, who by the damnable practise of Witch-craft have sold themselves to the Devils seruies. In regard whereof I may conclude, that either it must be granted that there are Witches both in name, and nature, or else the Oppositors, that being (I suppose) more precise then wise, standing rather upon the singularity of their own opinions, then the certainty of Reason or Judgment, must needs doe palpable wrong and open Injury to the discretions, or consciences of our learned Judges, and the power and virtue of our Laws, in the execution of Justice, making that hated, and unheard off Tyranny, which is done by the lawful power and virtue both of the Sovereign, and Subordinate authority.
Some doe maintain (but how wisely let the wiser judge) that all Witchcraft spoken of either by holy writers, or testified by other writers to have been among the heathen or in later days, hath been and is no more but either mere Cousinage, or Collusion, so that in the opinion of those men, the Devil hath never done, nor can do any thing by Witches. It may be, some will say, what hurt can grow from this opinion? The hurt that may ensue and grow thereof, none can tell that hath not first scene somewhat by experience. We all se that one kernel of Wheat being sown, a whole ear grows up, and sometimes brings forth an hundredth kernels in it. If an error be planted, who can tell what increase it may yield in time? The ground doth not bring forth the corn with such increase as the heart of Man doth errors. If we draw in one link of a Chain, another follows, and is by and by in sight, which draws we know not how many after it, until we se the last. There is no Error that goes alone, or that is not linked unto another. That holy Writ therefore (which makes the Man of God perfect and perfectly instructed unto every good work) must judge and decide the controversy in this case. Let vs then stick unto the same for testimony and proof.


What a Witch is, and the Antiquity of Witchcraft.
TO know things aright and perfectly, is to know the causes thereof. A Definition doth consist of those causes which give the whole Essence, and contain the perfect nature of the thing defined: where that is therefore found out, there appears the very clear light. If it be perfect, it is much the greater, though it be not fully perfect, yet it gives some good light.

For which respect though I dare not say, I can give a perfect Definition in this matter, which is hard to doe even in known things, because the Essential form is hard to be found, yet I doe give a Definition, which may at the least give notice, and make known what manner of Persons they be, of whom I am to speak. A Witch is one that works by the Devil, or by same Devilish or Curious Art, either hurting or healing, revealing things secret, or foretelling things to come, which the Devil hath devised to entangle, and snare men's souls withal, unto damnation. The Conjurer, the Enchanter, the Sorcerer, the Diviner, and whatsoever other sort there is, are indeed compassed within this circle. The Devil doth (no doubt) after divers sorts, and divers forms deal in these: But no man is able to show an Essential difference in each of them from the rest.


I hold it no wisdom, or labour well spent to travel much therein; One Artificer hath devised them all. They are all to one end and purpose, howsoever they much differ in outward Rules for practise of them, that is little or nothing besides mere delusion. Every Man will confess that the father of lies is not to be trusted. Every man knows that all his doings are hidden under coulorable shewss. Shall we then seek for steadfastness in his ways? Shall we be so foolish as to imagine that things are effected by the virtue of words, gestures, figures, or such like? All those are doubtless but to deceive, and draw men forward, and so plunge them more deeply into sins, and errors.
Touching the Antiquity of Witchcraft, we must neds confess that it hath been of very ancient time, because the Scriptures doe testify so much, for in the time of Moses it was very rife in Egipt, Neither was it then newly sprung up, being common, and grown unto such ripens among the Nations, that the Lord reckoning up divers kinds, saith that the Gentiles did commit such abominations, for which he would cast them out before the Children of Israel. How long it was before that time cannot for certainty be discussed: Saving that (as is said) it was not young in those days when Moses wrote. If we maintain that it was before the flood, there is great reason to justify the Assertion. We know that the Devil was exceeding crafty from the beginning, always laboring to seduce, and deceive after the worst manner. If he failed of his desire, it was because Men had not procured Gods displeasure to

come upon them, to deliver them over unto strange delusions, but God complains, that men had wonderfully corrupted their ways, long before the Flood: God being then provoked by the wickedness of the world, what should make vs doubt but that through his Just judgment the Devil had power given him and was let loose, that he might seduce, and lead the profane Nations into the depth and gulf of all abominable sins? Thus much concerning the certainty of Witches, and the Antiquity of Witchcraft, This that follows shall in some sort show their Devilish practises.




The Arraignment and Execution of Agnes Browne, and Ioane Vaughan or Varnham his daughter, who were both executed at Northampton the 22. of July last.
THis Agnes Browne led her life at Gilsborough in the county of Northampton, of poor parentage and poorer education, one that as she was borne to no good, was for want of grace never in the way to receive any, ever noted to bee of an ill nature and wicked position, spiteful and malicious, and many years before she died both hated, and feared among her neighbours: Being long suspected in the Town where she dwelt of that crime, which afterwards proved true. This Agnes Browne had a daughter whose name was Ioane Vaughan or Varnham a maid (or at least unmarried) as gracious as the mother, and both of them as far from grace as Heaven from hell.

This Ioane was so well brought up under her mothers elbows that she hanged with her for company under her mothers nose. But to the purpose. This Ioane one day happening into the company




of one Mistress Belcher, a virtuous and godly Gentlewoman of the same town of Gilsborough. This Ioane Vaughan, whether of purpose to give occasion of anger to the said Mistress Belcher, or but to continue her wild, and ordinary custom of behaviour, committed something either in speech, or gesture, so unfitting, and vnseming the nature of woman-hood, that it displeased the most that were there present: But especially it touched the modesty of this Gentlewoman, who was so much moved with her bold, and impudent demeanour, that she could not contain her self, but suddenly rase up and struck her, howbeit hurt her not, but forced her to avoid the company: which this Chicken of her Dams hatching, taking disdainfully and being also enraged (as they that in this kind having power to harm, have never patience to bear) at her going out told the Gentlewoman that she would remember this injury, and revenge it: To whom Mistress Belcher answered, that she neither seared her nor her mother: but bad her doe her worst.
This trull holding her self much disgraced, hies home in all hast to her mother, and tells her the wrong, which she suggested Mistress Belcher had done unto her: Now was the fire, and the tow met, all was inflamed: Nothing but rage and destruction: Had they had an hundred Spirits at command, the worst, and the most hurtful had been called to this counsel, and employed about this business. Howbeit upon advise (if such a sin may take or give advise) they stayed three or four days before they practised any thing, to avoid



suspicion, whether the mother advised the daughter, or the daughter the mother I know not, but I am sure the devil never gives advise to any man or woman in any act to be wary.
The matter thus sleping (but rage and revenge doe never rest) within a while was awaked, which Mistress Belcher to her intolerable pain too soon felt: For being alone in her house, she was suddenly taken with such a griping, and gnawing in her body, that she cried out, and could scarce bee held by such as came unto her, And being carried to her bed her face was many times so disfigured by being drawn awry that it bred both fear, and astonishment to all the beholders, and ever as she had breath, she cried, Here comes Ioane Uaughan, away with Ioane Uaughan.

This Gentlewoman being a long time thus strangely handled, to the great griese of her friends, it happened that her brother one Master Auery, hearing of his Sisters sickness and extremity came to se her, and being a sorrowful beholder, of that which before he had heard, was much moved in his mind at his Sisters pitiful condition, and the rather for that as he knew not the nature of her disease, so he was utterly ignorant of any direct way to minister cure or help to the same. He often heard her cry out against Ioane Vaughan alias Varnham, and her mother, and heard by report of the neighbours that which before had happened betwixt his Sister, and the said Ioane: In so much as having confirmed his suspicion that it was nothing else but Witch-craft that thus




tormented his Sister, following Rage rather then Reason, ran suddenly towards the house of the said Agnes Browne with purpose to draw both the mother and the daughter to his Sister for her to draw bl•…ud on: But still as he came near the house, he was suddenly stopped, and could not enter, whether it was an astonishment thorough his fear, or that the Spirits had that power to stay him I cannot judge, but he reported at his coming back that he was forcibly stayed, and could not for his life go any further forward, and they report in the Country that he is a Gentleman of a stout courage: He tried twice or thrice after to go to the house, but in the same place where he was stayed at first, he was still stayed: Belike the devil stood there Sentinel, kept his station well.
Upon this Master Auery being sorry and much ag ieued that he could not help his Sister in this tormenting distress, and finding also that no physic could doe her any good or easement, took a sorrowful leave and heavily departed home to his own house.

The Imp of this Damme, and both Imps of the Devil, being glad that they were both out of his reach, showed presently that they had longer arms then he, for he felt within a short time after his coming home that he was not out of their reach, being by the devilish practises of these two hel-hounds suddenly & grievously tormented in the like kind & with the like fits of his sister, which continued until these two witches either by the procurement of



Master Auery and his friends (or for some other Diuillish practise they had committed in the country) were apprehended, and brought to Northampton Gaol by Sir William Saunders or Cokesbrooke knight.
To which place the Brother and the Sister were brought delicious to scratch the Whiches. Which Art whether it be but superstitiously by some, or that expertence hath sound any power for help in this kind of Action by others, I list not to enquipe, only this I understand that many have attempted the practising thereof, how successively I know not. But this Gentleman and his Sister being brought to the gaol where theoe Witches were detained, having once gotten sight of them, in their fits the Witches being held, by scratching they drew blood of them, and were suddenly deliueted of their pain. Howbeit they were no sooner out of fight, but they fell again into their old trances, and were more violently tormented then before: for when Mischief is once a foot, she grows in short time so headstrong, that she is hardly curbed.

Not long after Master Auery and his Sister having been both in Northampton and having drawn blood of the Witches, Riding both homewards in one Coach, there appeared to their view a man and a woman riding both upon a black horse, M. Auery having spied them a far off, and noting many strange gestures from them, suddenly spake to them that were by, and (as it were Prophetically) cried but in these words. That either they or their Horses should presently miscarcy, And immediately the horses




fell down dead. Whereupon Master Auery rose up praising is grace and mercies of God, that he had so powerfully delivered them, and had not suffered the foul spirits to work the uttermost of their mischief upon men made after his image, but had turned their fury against Beasts. Upon this, they both hied them home, still praising God for their escape, and were never troubled after.
I had almost forgotten to tell you before, that M. Auery was by the Judges themselves in is Castle yard of Northampton, scene in the midst of his fits, and that he strangely continued in them until this Ioane Vaughan was brought unto him.

But now to draw ne'er unto their ends, this Agnes Browne and her daughter Ioane Vaughan, or Varneham being brought to their Arraignment, were there indighted for that they had bewitched the bodies of Master Auery and his sister Mistress Belcher in manner and form aforesaid, Together with the body of a young Child to the death (the true relation whereof came not to my hands) To all which they pleaded not guilty, and putting themselves upon the country were found guilty. And when they were asked what they could say for themselves, why yt sentence of death should not be pronounced against them, they stood stiffly upon their Innocence. Whereupon Judgment being given, they were carried back unto the Gaol, where they were never heard to pray, or to call upon God, but with bitter curses and execrations spent that little time they had to live, until the day of their Execution, when never asking pardon for their offences either of God, or the world, in this



their dangerous, and desperate resolution, dyed.
It was credthly reported that some fort-night before their apprehension, this Agnes Browne, one Ratherine Gardiner, and one Ioane Lucas, all birds of a wing, and all abiding in the Town of Gilsborough did ride one night to a place (not above a mile off) called Rauenstrop, all upon a Sows back, to se one mother Rhoades, an old Witch that dwelt there, but before they came to her house the old Witch died, and in her last cast cried out, that there were three of her old friends coming to se her, but they came too late, Howbeit she would mete with them in another place within a month after. And thus much concerning Agnes Browne, and her daughter Ioane Varnham.





The Arraignment, Conviction and Execution of one Arthur Bill of Rounds in the County of Northampton.
THis Arthur Bill, a wretched poor Man, both in state and mind, remained in a town called Raunds in the County aforesaid, begotten and borne of parents that were both Witches, and he (like a gracious Child) would not degenerate, nor suffer himself to stray from his fathers wicked Counsels, but carefully trod the steps that he had devilishly taught him.

This Arthur Bill was accused that he should bewitch the body of one Martha Aspen alias Ieames, the daughter of one Edward Aspen of the same town, to death. But this matter remaining doubtful that it could not be clearly tried upon him, he being strongly suspected before, by bewitching of Divers



kinds of cattle, to be guilty of that crime, And being also publicly known to be of an evil life and reputation, together with his father and mother. The Justices and other officers (thereby purposing to try the said Arthur by an experiment that (many think) never fails) caused them all to bee bound, and their Thumbs and great Toes to be tied across, and so threw the father, mother and son, and none of them sunk, but all floated upon the water.
And hereby the way, it is a special thing worthy general noting and observation, that there are two signs or tokens which are tokens as more certain, then others, to detect and find out Witches by. The one is the mark where the Spirits suck, and the trying of the insensiblenesse thereof. The other is their fleting on the water. Concerning which though I dare affirm nothing for certainty, there being (for ought I know) neither evident proof in nature, nor revelation from heaven to assure vs thereof: yet me thinks I may say the like of this, as is held of the bleding of a slain body in presence of the murderer. For as in a secret murder, if the dead Carcass be at any time either seen or handled by the murderer, it doth streitway gush out of blood, as if the blood should by issuing forth in such strange manner cry unto heaven for revenge of the murderer, God having as may seem appointed, that secret supernatural sign for trial of that secret unnatural crime, that the blood left in the body should thus appear,




and as it were challenge the murderer, for that blood which he before had feloniously stolen from the body: so it may bee, that God hath appointed (for a supernatural sign of the monstrous impiety of Witches) that the Element of water should refuse to receive them in her bosom, that have shaken from them the sacred water of Baptism, and wilfully refused the benefit thereof by making that breach and fall from God in participating thus wildly with the Spirits of Beliall: By whom and in the exercise of which sin, their hearts are so hardened, that not so much as their eyes are able to shed tears, threaten or torture them as you please: God not permitting them as may bee thought to dissemble their obstinacy in so horrible a crime; No not the women, though that sex bee ready to shed ears upon every light occasion: But to return to our matter.
These three, the Father, Mother and Son, being thus scene floating upon the water, the suspicion that was before not well grounded, was now confirmed: Whereupon the said Arthur Bill being the principal or (I think) the only Actor in this Tragedy, was apprehended and sent to Northampton gaol the nine and twentieth day of May last by Sir Gilbert Pickering of Tichmas alias Tichmase in the same County Knight, and presently after his commitment wearing that his old father would relent, and so happily confess that which might bee prejudicial unto him, sent for his mother to come unto him, to whom betraying his



mind, they both joined together, and bewitched a round ball into the Throat of his Father, where it continued a great while, his Father not being able to speak a word. Howbeit the ball was afterwards had out, and his Father proved the principal witness against him.
His Mother for fear of hanging, (not any hatred, or detestation she bare unto the sin) many times fainted, and would often pitifully complain unto her Spirit, that the power of the Law would be stronger then the power of her art, and that she saw no other likelihood, but that she should be hanged as her Son was like to bee: To whom her Spirit answered, giving this sorry comfort, that she should not bee hanged, but to prevent that, she should cut her own throat: She hearing this sentence, and holding it definitive, in great agony, and horror of mind and conscience fell a raving, crying out that the irrevocable Judgment of her death was given and that she was damned perpetually, cursing and banning the time wherein she was borne, and the hour wherein she was conceived.

Her Neighbours often hearing her bitter execrations bad her call upon God, and to be sorry for the sins which she had committed, But she could in no case endure to hear it: And having thus for 3. or 4. days tormented herself in this Agony, at last she made good the Devils word, and to prevent the Justice of the Law, and to save the hangman a labour, cut her own throat.

Her Son being all this while in prison, and




hearing of his Mothers death, and that his Father was become a witness against him, was much perplered in his mind, that his Mother was dead, in whom he most trusted, and his Father living, whom he most feared, Howbeit he stiffly stood still in the denial of every thing, pleading nothing but his innoceney, Notwithstanding that he had before at unawares confessed, that he had certain Spirits at command, which being employed, would doe any mischief to any man, woman or child that he would appoint.
It said is that he had three Spirits to whom he gave three special names, the Devil himself sure was godfather to them all, The first he called Grissill, The other was named Ball, and the last Jack, but in what at shapes they appeared unto him I cannot learn. For Devils can appear both in a bodily shape, and use speech and conference with men. Dur Saviour saith, That a Spirit hath neither flesh nor bones: A Spirit hath a substance, but yet such as is invisible, whereupon it must needs be granted, that Devils in their own nature have no bodily shape nor visible form, it is moreover against the Truth and against Piety to believe, that Devils can create, or make bodies or change one body into another, for those things are proper to God.

It follows therefore that whenever they appear in a visible form, it is no more but an apparition and counterfeit show of a body, unless a body be at any time lent them. And when they make one body



to bear the likeness of another, it is but a colour. Some man will say, what reason is there to show they can doe so much, being of an essence invisible? Wee may not stay here within the limits of our own reason, which is not able to comprehend, what way Devils should be able to work such operations. We may not (I say) measure their power, and subtleties in working for our own capacity and understanding: But we must look what the Cannon of Scripture doth testify in this behalf. We have manifest proof that the Devil can take a bodily shape. For when Aaron had cast down his staff, and it was turned into a Serpent, The enchanters of Egypt cast down their staves, and they became Serpents, which was indeed but in show, and appearance, which the Devil made, For he deluded the Senses both in hiding the form of the Staves, which indeed were not any way changed: As also in making a show of such bodies, as were not. This was done openly, otherwise it might be thought to be a mere illusion. For we see that men in extreme sickness, think they hear a voice, and se a shape, which none other in presence either hears or seth, some are so melancholy that they imagine they hear and se that which they doe not: For Satan doth so delude the fantasy, that the party supposes that his very outward senses doe perceive the matter: But here was no such thing. All that were with Pharao did think there•… were very Serpents in dede, Saning that Moses and Aaron did know it the juggling of the Devil.
But to return to this Arthur Bill: He (miserable




man) lying in prison from the 29 day of May to the 22 of July following, many resorted to him, willing him to leave off all colour and dissimulation, and not to suffer his Conscience to double with his Tongue, But to clear his heart and his thoughts before the Maiestic of him, to whom no secrets are hid, That the world might be witness of his confession and contrition to pray with him and for him, For although he had wandered and gone astray, he might by his true contrition and their hearty prayers be brought unto the fold again.
But his Conscience being feared, and his heart steld, could receive no impression, but stood like an Image of Adamant, more easy to be broken in pieces, then be pierced. In this obduracy of mind and Spirit he continued until the ssises where being Arraigned for several crimes committed, but especially for the Murder of the said Martha Aspen, contrary to the peace of our Sovereign Lord the King, his Crown, and dignity, he pleaded to them all not guilty, and putting himself upon the Country, was by them found guilty.

Upon the verdict whereof, his countenance changed, and he cried out, that he had now found the Law to have a Power above Justice, for that it had condemned an Innocent.

It seems to me that these wild Spirits, which these Witches have at command, and by their employment are suffered to have power to hurt the bodies of others, have a greater Power over them that set them a work, For they doe not only fed upon them participating with the blood of humane



flesh for the redemption whereof Christ shed his own precious blood, But it appears that they have also power even over their Souls, leading them into wandering by-waies, and such erroneous Laberinths, that in the wilful obstinacy and perverse sufferance of their own minds to stray in this dangerous desert of obduracy, they are lost for ever.
But to conclude with this Arthur Bill, that se ill concluded with the world, He being brought to the place of Execution, and standing upon that fatal stage for offenders, pleaded still his innocence, that Authority was turned to Tyranny, and Justice into extreme Injury, to the great wonder, and disdain of all the lookers on.

Thus with a dissembling Tongue and a corrupted Conscience, he ended his course in this world, with little hope or respect (as it semd) of the world to come.





The Arraignment, and Execution of Helen Ienkenson.
THis Helen Ienkenson dwelling at a Town called Thrapston in the County of Northampton, was noted a long time to be of an evil life and much suspected of this crime before her apprehension, for bewitching of Cattle and other mischiefs, which before time she had done.

This Helen was apprehended for bewitching of a Child to death, and committed to Northampton Gaol the 11 of May last by Sir Thomas Brooke of Okeiy Knight. A little before whose apprehension, one Mistress Moulsho of the same Town (after she was so strongly suspected) getting her by a while into a place convenient would neds have her searched, to se if they could find that insensible mark which commonly all Witches have in some privy place or other of their bodies. And this Mistress Moulsho was one of the chief that did search her, and found at the last that which they sought for to their great amazement: at that time this Mistress Moulsho had a Buck of clothes to be washed out. The next morning the Maid, when she came to hang



them forth to dry, spied the Clothes, but especially Mistress Moulshoes Smock to be all bespotted with the pictures of Toads, Snakes, and other ugly Creatures, which making her aghast, she went presently and told her Mistress, who looking on them, smiled, saying nothing else but this; Here are fine Hobgoblins indeed: And being a Gentlwoman of a stout courage, went immediately to the house of the said Helen Ienkenson, and with an angry countenance told her of this matter, threatening her that if her Linen were not shortly clered from those foul spots, she would scratch out both her eyes: and so not staying for any answer went home, and found her linen as white as it was at first. This Helen being brought to the bar, and being indicted of the murder of the Child, pleaded thereunto not guilty, but the verdict being given up against her, she cried out, woe is me, I now cast away, But (like the rest) did stoutly deny the accusations, and said that she was to die an Innocent, I think as Innocent as the rest: And at the place of Execution made no other confession but this, That she was guiltless, and never showed sign of Contrition for what was past, nor any sorrow at all, more then did accompany the fear of death. Thus ended this woman her miserable life, after she had lived many years poor, wretched, scorned, and forsaken of the world.




The Arraignment and Execution of Mary Barber.
THis Mary Barber of Stanton in the said County of Northampton was one in whom the licentiousness of her passions grew to bee the Master of her Reason, and did so conquer in her strength and power of all virtue, that she fell in the Apostasy of goodness, and became diverted, and abused unto most god actions, clothing her desperate soul, in the most ugly habiliments, that either Malice, Envy, or Cruelty could produce from the ndnesse of her degenerate, and devilish desires. As she was of mean Parents, so was she monstrous and hideous, both in her life, and . Her education and barbarous nature never promising to the world any thing, but what was rude, violent and without any hope of proportion, more then only in the square of iousnesse. For out of the  and blindness of her seduced senses, she gave  to all the passionate and earthly fies of the flesh and followed all the vanities, and Cameras of her polluted and unreasonable dghts, forsaking the Society of Grace, and growing enamoured upon all the evil that orminister to her malicious desires





As appeared by her bewitching a man to death, and doing much other hurt and harm to divers sorts of cattle in the Country. For which she was committed to Northampton gaol the 6 day of May last by Sir Thomas Topham, and the same and many other matters being plainly and evidently manifest and proved against her by good evidence, she had the sentence of death, worthily pronounced against her. In the time of her imprisonment she was not noted to have any remembrance or feeling of the heinousness of her offences or any remorseful tongue of the dissolute and devilish course of her life.
The prison which makes men bee fellows and chambermates with thieves, and murderers (the common guests of such despised Innes and should cause the imoned party like a Christian Arithmetician to number and cast up the account of his whole life, never put her in mind of the hateful transgressions she had committed, or to consider the forth and leprosy of her soul, or entreat heavens mercy for the reasons thereof. Prison put her not in mind of her grave, nor the grates and lockes put her in remembrance of hell, which deprived her of the joy of liberty, which she saw others possess: The jangling of irons did not put her in mind of the chains where with she should bee bound in eternal torments, unless heavens mercy unloosed them, nor of the howling terrors and gnashing of teeth, which in hell every soul shall receive for the particular offences committed in this life, without unfeigned & hearty conjuration. She never remembered or thought




she must oi, or trembled for fear of what should come to her after death. But as her life was always known to be devilish, so her death was at last foūd to be desperate. For she (& the rest before named) being brought from the common gaol of Northampton to Northampton Castle, where the Assizes are usually held, were severally arraigned and indicted for the offences they had formerly committed, but to the inditements they pleaded not guilty: Putting therefore their causes to the trial of the Country, they were found guilty and deserved death by the verdict of a credible Jury returned. So without any confession or contrition, like birds of a feather, they all held and hanged together for company, at Abington gallows hard by Northampton, the two and twentieth day of July last past: Leaving behind them in prison many others tainted with the same corruption, who without much mercy and repentance are like to follow them in the same tract of Precedence.
    FINIS.