Witches Apprehended, Examined and Executed, for notable villainies by them committed both by Land and Water.

With a strange and most true trial how to know whether a woman be a Witch or not.


Printed at London or Edward Merchant, and are to be sold at his shop over against the Cross in Pals Church-yard. 1613.

The several and damnable practises of Mother Sutton, and Mary Sutton her daughter of Milton Milles, in the County of Bedford: who were lately arraigned convicted, and executed.
PLinie writes of some kind of Serpents that dare not approach the wild Ashtree, nay the sight of it is so terrible to them, they fly from it, and will not draw near the shadow thereof, but if they be walled round with fire, they will rather run through to the confusion



of themselves then endure it. If it were so with vs which profess our selves Christians, & should be Christ's sons to imitate our Father, and Saviour in his life, which he left as a lesson to mankind his children to learn, we should then having reason, (part of the inheritance of Angels) be more provident of our proper good then Serpents are, who to avoid the persecution of their mind, will endure the affliction of their body, and to shun the very shadow of the Ashtree, will thrust themselves into torment of fire: So should men, who seeing sin like a wild Ashtree grow in the world, and that to lurk under the shadow thereof is a whip to their conscience, when to feed on the sap is damnation to their souls, in this only like Serpents avoid it for the relief of their mindrs, though with the painful dissolution of their bodies: but such is the deafness of our ears, that though heaven it self speak in thunder to remember vs a day shall come when we must give account for our wilful transgressions, wee not regard it, and such the hardness of our hearts, that neither treasons, murders, witchcrafts, fires, floods, of all which the impetuous course hath been such in this age, that we have cause to look our day of summons is to morrow, if not this hour, yet we are unprepared of our account, and as if it were lawful that evils should grow, many from one, and one from another, are as corn is fruitful from one seed to several ears. So from one sin we


multiply to divers, not dreading vengeance till our iniquities be numberless. As shall appear by this following discourse.
At a place called Milton some three miles from Bedford, was lately dwelling one Mother Sutton, who being a widow, and of declining years, had her daughter called Mary Sutton, (as it was thought by the neighbours thereabouts) resident with her as a stay and comfort to her age, when she kept her, but as a furtherer to her devilish practises, nay indeed to make her a scholar to the Devil himself.

This widow Sutton having been dwelling a long time in the foresaid, town of Milton, and not suspected as then to have been a practiser in this devilish exercise of witchcraft, was by the townsmen (being held but poor) for her better relief chosen to be the Hogheard, or Hog-keeper. In which service she cōtinued long, not without commendations for her dutiful care had therein. And though many cattle oftentimes miscarried, and were taken with staggerings, frenzies, and other diseases to their confusions, and impoverishing of the owners, yet she not till of late suspected to be a cause thereof, though since it hath evidently been proved against her.

Continuing thus almost for the space of twenty, or one and twenty years, and in that time had brought her daughter to be as perfect in her devilish charms as her self, there grew some difference between a Gentleman of worship called



Master Anger dwelling at Milton Milles, and this mother Sutton, On whom she had vowed to take a strange and actual revenge for the discontent she had conceived against him, which rancour of hers she thus prosecuted: His horses that were left well in his stable over night, she caused them to be found dead in the morning, some strangled, some having beaten out their brains, others dead, and no cause perceived how. Besides this loss, which for the strangeness bred some amazement in him, for that it happened not once, but often, this also did second it: when his Swine were in the fields at their troughs eating their meat, some of them would suddenly fall mad, and violently fall to tearing out the guts, and bowels of their fellows: others by ten and twenty in a company, as if they had been carried with one desire, would leave their feeding, and run headlong into the Mill dams, and drown themselves. So that not by accidental means, but the hellish and most damnable witchcrafts of this Mother Sutton, and her daughter, many these harmless cattle and Oxen, made as needful reliefs to the necessity of man, were thus perplexed, and an honest and worshipful Gentleman Master Anger, from whom she had oftentimes both food and clothing, damnified by her means to the value of two hundredth pounds in less then two years.
In the time of these aforesaid losses happened to Master Anger, one Henry Sutton, the bastard son



son of Mary Sutton (for it is to bee noted, that although she was never married, yet she had three bastards) coming to play himself about the Mill damme, fell to throwing in of stones, dirt, and filth, with other such unhappiness incident to children: Of which having been often forewarned by an ancient servant of Master Angers, who was then about the Milles, and finding the boy notwithstanding his admonishment rather to persevere then to desist from his knavery, he came to him, and giving him a little blow or two on the ear, the boy went home crying, and the ancient fellow went back to his labour.
This Henry Sutton coming home began to tell his mother how a man of Master Angers (naming him) had beaten him. Whose venomous nature being soon kindled, though he had received no hurt, she vowed to take revenge, and thus it followed.

This ancient servant with another of his masters men were on the morrow being Market day at Bedford, appointed by their master to carry a Cart load of corn for the furnishing of the Market. Being on their way at Milton Towns end they espied a goodly fair black Sow grazing, who as they drove their Team still kept pace with thē till they came within a mile of Bedford. Where on a sudden they perceived her to turn twice or thrice about as readily as a Windmill sail at work: And as suddenly their horses fell to starting and drawing some one way, some



another: At last the strongest prevailing, they drew away the Cart, and corn, and left the Wheels, and Axeltree behind them. The horses they ran away with their load, as if they had been mad, and the two fellows after the horses, the horses being affrighted half out of their strength, and the fellows as much mad to see them, down went one sack on this side the Cart, and another on that: The horses they ran as if they would have swelted themselves, and the fellows after them breathless, and sweating to make the wilde Jade stay. All which till the Devil and the Witch had plaid their parts would not serve turn.
At last this Tragicke-Comedie drawing to an end, they made a stand, when the servants bringing them back, and finding their Axeltree, pins, and all things vnbroken, took up their Corn, made fit their Cart again, & the horses drew as formally as could be: And they went forthwards towards Bedford, mistrusting nothing, though they saw the Sow following and grazing, as they did before.

Being come to Bedford, and having unloaded the Cart, and made sale of the Corn, the one sell to driving the Team home again, leaving his ancienter fellow behind him at Bedford who happening into company, fell a carousing with boon companions like himself, and in the height of their cups, they as desirous to hear, as he to tell, he related unto them the manner and form how his Cart and Wheels were diuoret' as he was coming to Town: some wondered, all laughed: the company brake up, and this ancient servant took his horse with purpose to overtake his fellow, who was gone before with the Cart: Who no sooner was out of Bedford Towns end, but he might behold the same Sow (as near as he could judge,) grazing again, as if the Devil and the Witch had made her his footman to waite upon him. But the fellow not mistrusting any thing, made his Nag take a speedy amble, and so to overtake the Cart, while the Sow side by side ran along by him. When he overtaking his fellow, and had scarce spoken to him, but the horses (as before) fell to their old contention running one from another, only the horses were better furnished then be¦fore, for where at first they left both Wheels and Axeltree behind them, they now had the Axeltree to take their part, leaving the Wheels in the high way for the servants to bring after. The horse in this manner coming home, drove all the beholders into amazement, and the servants beginning to have mistrust of the black Sow, they watched whither she went, whom they found to go into Mother Suttons house, of which they told their master, and of all the accidents aforesaid, who made slight of it to them whatsoever he conceived of it himself: and saying he supposed they were drunk, they departed.


The same old servant of Master Angers within few days after going to plough, fell into talk of Mother Sutton, and of Mary Sutton her daughter, of what pranks he had heard they had plaid thereabouts in the Country, as also what accidents had befallen him and his fellow, as they had passed to and from Bedford. In discoursing of which a Beetle came, and stroke the same fellow on the breast: and he presently fell into a trance as he was guiding the Plough, the extremity whereof was such, as his senses altogether distract, and his body and mind utterly distempered, the beholders deemed him clean hopeless of recovery, yea his other fellow upon this sudden sight was stricken into such amazement, as he stood like a lifeless trunk divided from his vital spirits, as far unable to help him, as the other was needful to be helped by him. Till at length being somewhat recovered, and awaked from that astonishment, he made hast homeward, and carried his master word of what had happened.
Upon delivery of this news (for he was a man highly esteemed by him for his honest and long service) there was much moan made for him in the house, and Master Anger himself had not the least part of grief for his extremity, but with all possible speed hasted into the field, and used help to have him brought home. After which he neglected no means, nor spared any cost that might ease his servant, or redeem him from the



misery he was in, but all was in vain: for hrs ecstasies were nothing lessened, but continued a long time in as grievous perplexity as at first yet though they suspected much, they had no certain proof or knowledge of the cause: Their means were therefore the shorter to cure the effect. But as a thief, when he enters into a house to rob, first puts out the lights, according to that, Qui male agit, odit lucem, He that doth evil, hates light, so these Imps that live in the gunshot of devilish assaults, go about to darken and disgrace the light of such as are toward, and virtuous, and make the night the instrument to contrive their wicked purposes. For these Witches having so long, and covertly continued to doe much mischief by their practises, were so hardened in their lewd and vile proceeding, that the custom of their sin had quite taken away the sense and feeling thereof, and they spared not to continue the perplexity of this old servant both in body and mind, in such sort that his friends were as desirous to see death rid him from his extremity, as a woman great with child is ever musing upon the time of her delivery: For where distress is deep, and the conscience clear, Morse expectatur absque formidine, exoptatur cum dulcedine, excipitur cum devotion. Death is looked for without fear, desired with delight, and accepted with devotion. As the acts and enterprises of these wicked persons are dark and devilish: so in the perseverance


of this fellows perplexity, he being in his distraction both of body and mind, yet in bed and awake, espied Mary Sutton, (the daughter) in a Mooneshine night come in at a window in her accustomed and personal habit, and shape, with her knitting work in her hands, and sitting down at his beds feet, sometimes working, and knitting with her needles, and sometimes gazing and staring him in the face, as his grief was thereby redoubled and increased. Not long after she drew nearer unto him, and sate by his bed side (yet all this while he had neither power to stir or speak) and told him if he would consent she should come to bed to him, he should be restored to his former health and prosperity. Thus the Devil strives to enlarge his Kingdom, and upon the neck of one wickedness to heap another: So that Periculum probate transeuntium raritas, pertuntium multitudo: In the dangerous Sea of this world, the rareness of those that posse the same over safe, and the multitude of others that perish in their passage, sufficiently prove the peril wee live in: In the Ocean Sea, of four ships not one miscarries. In the Sea of this world, of many sowers, not one escapes his particular cross and calamity: yet in our greatest weakness and debility, when the Devil is most busy to tempt vs, and seduce vs from God, then is God strongest in the hearts of his children, and most ready to bee auxiliant, and helping to


save and uphold them from declining, and falling. Gods liberality appears more, then his rigour, for whom he draws out the Devils throat by faith, he would have to trample him down by virtues least he should only have fled, not foiled his enemy.
This is made shown in his miraculous working with this fellow: for he that before had neither power to move, or speak, had then presently by divine assistance free power and liberty to give repulse to her assault, and denial to her filthy and detested motion: and to upbraid her of her abominable life and behaviour, having before had three bastards and never married. She upon this (seeing her suite cold, and that Gods power was more predominant with him then her devilish practise, vanished, and departed the same way she came.

She was no sooner gone, but as well as he could, he called for his master, told him that now he could tell him the cause of this vexation: That Mother Suttons daughter came in at the window, sate knitting and working by him, and that if he would have consented to her filthiness, he should have been freed from his misery, and related all that had happened.

His master was glad of this news, for that the means found out, the matter and manner of his grief might bee the easier helped, and redressed,



yet was he distrustful of the truth, and rather esteemed it an idleness of his brain, then an accident of verity: Nevertheless he resolved to make proof thereof.
The next morrow he took company along with him, and went into the fields, where he found her working, and tending her hogs. There Master Anger speaking to her, she was a very good huswife, and that she followed her work night and day: No sir, said she, My housewifery is very slender, neither am I so good a follower of my work as you persuade me: with that, he told her that she was, and that she had been working at his house the night before. She would confess nothing, but stood in stiff denial upon her purgation: Insomuch as the Gentleman by fair entreaties persuaded her to go home with him, to satisfy his man, and to resolve some doubts that were had of her. She utterly refused, and made answer she would not stir a foot, neither had they authority to compel her to go without a Constable: Which Master Anger perceiving, and seeing her obstinacy to be so great, fell into a greater dislike, and distrust of her then he did before, and made no more a doe, but caused her to bee set upon an horse-backe to be brought to his house. All the company could hardly bring her away, but as fast as they set her up, in despite of them she would swerve down, first on the one side, then the other, till at last they were fine by maine



force to join together, and hold her violently down to the horseback, and so bring her to the place where this perplexed person lay in his bed. Where being come, and brought by force to his bed-side, he (as directions had been given unto him) drew blood of her, and presently began to amend, and bee well again. But her assiduitie and continual exercise in doing mischief, did so prevail with her to doe this fellow further hurt, that watching but advantage, and opportunity to touch his neck again with her finger: It was no sooner done, and she departed, but he fell into as great or far worse vexation then he had before.
The report of this was carried up and down all Bedford-shire, and this Marie Suttons wicked and lewd courses being rumored as well abroad, as in Master Angers house, at last it came into the mouth of Master Angers son, (being a little boy of seven years old) who not long after espying old Mother Sutton going to the Mill to grind corn, and remembering what speeches he had heard past of her and her daughter followed the old woman, flinging stones at her, and calling her Witch, which thee observing conceited a rancour, and deadly hatred to this young child, and purposed not to suffer opportunity posse to bee revenged. As soon therefore as she had dispatched at the Mill, she hasted homewards, and could not be quiet till she had grumbled to her daughter what had happened, and



how the child had served her; Then conferring how Master Anger had used Mary Sutton the daughter, and how his little son had used the Mother, they both resolved, and vowed revenge. This conference and consultation of villainy was had, and concluded in the presence, and hearing of Henry Sutton, (the Bastard of Mary Sutton) little thinking that his fortune should be to give in euidene to break the neck of his own Mother and Grandmother.
To effect their devilish purpose to the young child of Master Anger, they called up their two Spirits, whom she called Dicke and Iude: and having given them suck at their two Teats which they had on their thighs (found out afterwards by enquiry, and search of women) they gave them charge to strike the little boy, and to turn him to torment. Which was not long in performing, but the child being distract, was put to such bitter and insupportable misery, as by his life his torments were augmented, and by his death they were abridged. For his tender and unripe age was so enfeebled and made weak by that devilish infliction of extremity, as in five days, not able longer to endure them, death gave end to his perplexities.

The Gentleman did not so much grieve for the loss and hinderance he had in his cattle, (which was much) nor for the miserable distress that his servant had endured (which was more) as that the hopeful days of his young



son were so untimely cut off: (which touched his heart most of all.) Yet did his discretion temper his passions with such patience, that he referred the remembrance of his wrongs to that heavenly power, that permits not such iniquity to posse unrevealed, or unrevenged.
As he was thus wrapped in a Sea of woes, there came a Gentleman a friend of his forth of the North, that travelling towards London sojourned with him all night. He perceiving Master Anger to be full of grief, was desirous to know the cause thereof, and he was as unwilling by the discourse of his misfortunes to renew his many sorrows, till at last his friends urgent importunacy persuaded him not to posse it over with silence. Upon Master Angers relation of what had happened: the Gentleman demanded if he had none in suspicion that should doe these wrongs unto him: Yes, (quoth Master Anger) and therewithal he mimed this Mary Sutton and her mother, and told him the particulars of his losses and miseries. His friend understanding this, advised him to take them, or any one of them to his Mill damme, having first shut up the Mill gates that the water might be at highest, and then binding their arms cross, stripping them into their Smocks, and leaving their legs at liberty, throw them into the water, yet least they should not bee Witches, and that their lives might not be in danger of drowning,



let there be a rope tied about their middles, so long that it may reach from one side of your damme to the other, where on each side let one of your men stand, that if she chance to sink they may draw her up and preserve her. Then if she swim, take her up, & cause some women to search her, upon which, if they find any extraordinary marks about her, let her the second time be bound, and have her right thumb bound to her left toe, and her left thumb to her right toe, and your men with the same rope (if need be) to preserve her, and bee thrown into the water, when if she swim, you may build upon it, that she is a Witch, I have seen it often tried in the North country,
The morrow after Master Anger road into the fields where Mary Sutton (the daughter) was, having some of his men to accompany him, where after some questions made unto her, they assayed to bind her on horse-backe, when all his men being presently stricken lame, Master Anger himself began to remember, that once rating her about his man, he was on the sudden in the like perplexity, and then taking courage, and desiring God to bee his assistance, with a cudgel which he had in his hand, he beat her till she was scarce able to stir. At which his men presently recovered, bound her to their Masters horse, and brought her home to his house, & shutting up his Mill gates did as before the Gentleman had advised him: when being thrown in the first time



she sunk some two foot into the water with a fall, but rose again, and floated upon the water like a plank. Then he commanded her to be taken out, and had women ready that se•••••d her and found under her left thigh a kind of ••at, which after the Bastard son confessed her Spirits in several shapes as Cats, Moales, &c. used to suck her.
Then was she the second time bound cross her thumbs and toes, according to the former direction, and then she sunk not at all, but sitting upon the water, turned round about like a wheel, or as that which commonly we call a whirl poole. Notwithstanding Master Angers men standing on each side of the damme with a rope tossing her up and down to make her sink, but could not.

And then being taken up, she as boldly as if she had been innocent asked them if they could doe any more to her: When Master Anger began to accuse her with the death of his cattle, the languish of his man, who continued in sorrow both of body and mind from Christmas to Shronetide, as also the death of his son: All which she constantly denied, and stood at defiance with him till being carried towards a Justice, Master Anger told her it was bootless to stand so obstinately upon denial of those matters, for her own son Henry had revealed all, both as touching her s;elf and her mother, and of the time and manner of their plotting to torment his little boy: when she heard that, her heart misgave her, she confessed



all, and acknowledged the Devil had now left her to that shame that is reward to such as follow him. Upon which confession, the mother also was apprehended, and both being committed to Bedford Gaol, many other matters were there produced against them, of long continuance (for they had remained as before, about twenty years) in the prosecute of these lewd and wicked practises. But for this matter of Master Anger at the last Assizes, the evidence of the Bastard son, and the confessions severally taken both of old Mother Sutton & her daughter Mary, found them guilty in al former objections. So that arraigned at Bedford on Monday the thirtieth of March last past, they had a just conviction, and on Tuesday the next day after they were executed.
    FINIS.

