THE DEVILS DELVSIONS OR A faithful relation of John Palmer and Elizabeth Knott two notorious VVitches lately condemned at the Sessions of Over and Terminer in St. Albans.

Together with the Confession of the aforesaid John Palmer and Elizabeth-Knott, exe∣cuted July 16.

Also their accusations of several VVitches in Hitchen, Norton, and other places in the County of Hartford.

LONDON, Printed for Richard Williams Stationer at St. Albans, Anno Doom. 1649.


A Letter sent from S. Albans to a friend in the Country concerning the Trial, con∣damning and execution of J. Palmer & Elizabeth Knott, two notorious Witches.
SIR,
ACcording to your earnest desire, I have taken the best care I could to satisfy you, concerning the Witches lately tried, con∣damned, and executed at St. Albans: It had been very difficult to convince me of that which I find true, concerning the wiles of that old Serpent the Devil, for the supporting of his dark dominions, which appears in the subtle trade he drives for the enlarging of his territories; by strengthening of himself upon the weakness of his subjects, relapsed men and women.

I shall the more clearly give you to understand what you desire concerning these two, by name, John Palmer and Elizabeth Knott of Norton, within the Liberty of St. Albans, if you please to pardon the me∣thod whereunto I shall reduce the several kinds of Witches.

First I find that man at his best estate was created with excellent beauty of knowledge in his mind,

which his own unhappy mutability together with the Devils suggestion, hath folded up in darkness and obscurity; whereupon being impatient to be coop't up within the narrow scantling of his own intellectuals, I see him very busy with the Devil; and rather then keep his station, he will make trial what the Devil can do for his advancement in knowledge: I find those that dealt with curious arts in Acts 19. 19. fitly comprehended under this kind: I know not whether to reduce Marsh of Dunstable, whom Palmer confesses to be the head of the whole College of Witches, that he knows in the world: This Palmer hath been a Witch these 60 years, (by his own confession) long enough to know and give in the total sum of all the Conjuring conclave, and the society of Witches in England. This Marsh hath so long gratified the Country people with his Conjurations, that time and ignorance stiles him a good Witch, or a white Witch; I suppose you easily grant that the Devil is never blacker, and more to be abhorred then when he transforms himself into an Angel of Light. Sr. I easily believe that if Marsh was brought to his trial, he might confess as much of his brother Lily, as Palmer hath of him, that im∣pudent Prognosticator, and bold Balaam.
This I conceive to be one occasion to the god of this world, in tempting and deluding those who are led captive by him, namely an inordinate desire to


know more then his maker hath thought fit for him to know.
Secondly I find an other occasion whereupon the Devil offers his service so officiously, which is envy, who seeing a predominance in the irascible faculty, he is never behindhand in the proffering his service for the attempting what ever he tempt them to I find Manasses the King, by the piously learned to be reckoned under this kind, concerning whom it is said, 2 Chron. 33. 6. That he used enchantments, and det with a familiar spirit, and not long after we find that he made Jerusalem to run down with blood from one end to another, as an effect of his envious dispo∣sition: Yet verse. 12, 13. The father of mercies was entreated of him, upon his humiliation and ripen∣tance.

By the plain confession of Palmer it may certainly be guessed that the Devil took advantage of him in this breach, and brought him into breach upon this ground; in as much as he was (as he said)of a fretful and revengeful nature, and not being above himself to avenge himself of his adversaries he then joined himself to the Devil, and wrought himself in the eyes of the Lord: upon his pact with the Devil, he received a upon his side, which gave suck to two familiars in form of a dogs which he called George, and the other in the likeness of a woman called Jezabell, when the

Devil first made this mark he drew his blood and caused him to write his mark upon the ground with his own hand therewith; his trading in this horrid and abominable practice of Witchcraft was (as he confessed) betwixt the space of 50 and 60 years, the hurt which from time to time he had done was ve∣rye much and this I account his prime prank that he notoriously seduced Elizabeth Knott his kinswo∣man, to consort with him in his villainy who hath assented to him more especially in the death of one Goodwife Pearls of Norton, whom Palmer said he would do nothing to occasion her death unless this Elizabeth Knott would assent: whereupon they pre∣sently agreed to frame the picture of the woman (Pearls) in clay, which was forthwith laid upon the fire, and duly raked up in the embers; while it was consuming and mouldering away the woman lay in miserable torments, when it was quite consumed the woman immediately dyed: and this he confessed to be done by him, and his kinswoman out of revenge which he ought her, for hanging a lock upon his door, for the not paying of his rent: At another time to satisfy his revengeful humour he killed an horse of Mr. Cleavers by sending his familiar: and this Elizabeth Knott bewitched a Cow of John Lamans▪ by sending an evil spirit unto her, which was in the likeness of a Catt, but had no hand in the death of any thing, save the death of Goodwife Pearls. The

familiar which she entertained came to her about three weeks before the said Cow was bewitched at twelve of the Clock in the night, and the familiar promised her, that she should have her desire in any thing she would desire, except money: and the rea∣son why she bewitched the Cow of William Laman was, because she demanded money which was due to her, from the said Lamans wife, and it was denied her. We understand also from this Elizabeth Knott that when she was cast upon the water her familiar sucked upon her breast, but after she came out of the water she never saw it any more.
It would be tedious to reckon up the multifarious exploits of this old Witch Palmer▪ for Knott his kins∣woman was but a novice, in comparison of him, and as I conceive had made no direct Covenant with the Devil, as Palmer had.

A little before his execution he confessed to Simpson Clark, the Keeper of the Prison, that falling out with a young man, he transformed himself into a Toad, and lying in the way where the young man came, he kick't it, immediately Palmer complained of a sore shin, whereupon he bewitched the young man for many years to his great woe and torment.

That you may further understand what society he had on your side the Country, with such as were in∣bond to the Devil, I shall signify to you what he confessed before his execution: In Hitchin, he reckons

two, Mary By-chance and Widow Palmer: In Norton John Salmon senior. Joseph Salmon, and Judith his wife. John Lemon senior and Mary his wife, John La∣men junior. Mary the daughter of Iohn Lemon senior Ioan Lemon the daughter of the aforesaid Iohn Lemon: and the wife of one Mays in Weston. And at the place of execution he confessed two more, Sarah Smith and Anne Smith servants, the one to Mr. Beamont, the other to Mr. Reynolds.
There is a third ground whereupon the Devil takes advantage by his delusions to beguile men and women, and that is by a diligent observation of their concupiscible faculty, whereby they are inordinate in their desires after money and gain, which the God of this world is very free to promise, but as one of his slaves confessed, she never wanted, (that is) any misery or affliction, after she had contracted with him.

I am in hast but rest, yours B. Mi.
    FINIS.

