A full and true Account of the Apprenhending and Taking of Mrs. Sarah Moordike, Who is accused for a Witch. Being Taken near Pal's Whart, on Thursday the 24th of this instant, for having Bewitched one Richard hetheway, near the Faulkern-Stairs in Southwark.

With her examination before the Right Worshipful Sir Thomas lane, Sir Owen Buckingham, and Dr. Hambleton in Bow-lane.

It happened that Richard Hatheway, who is known to be a servant of Mr. Thomas Welling's, who went some time past to clap on, or fix a key to a lock, for Mrs. Sarah Moordike, the Wife of one commonly called by the name of Moll Dike, a Water-man, playing at Pal's Wahrf in London when at the same time, she and her husband had diverse words together; whereas she said Moll Dike (her Husband, took some lining out, which was his first wive's, and so went over the water; which she seeing, said, then I will carry out mine, and make away with it: so accordingly carried it out; but said, I will have a Key as well as my Husband: He having took the Key of the Door along with him. Upon which she went to a neighbour's who was a Black Smith, to accomplish the same; but not being within, she went to Mr. Thomas Willing's, living near the Faulken in Southwark, who isntantly sent his apprentice (Richard Hatheway) to do the same, and according he did it; but no sooner had he done, but she, the said Sarah Moorkie, asked him to Dreink, which he denied, but by much importunment he did; when for after he was taken ill, insomuch that he could not eat nor drink, or do any work, but in a small time, grew altogether incapable of doing any service for his master, and so continued for many motnhs; during which time, he was part of it under th ehands of several doctors and chyrugeons in St. Thomas Hospital. But all the time of his continuance, they could work nothign of a cure on him; then he was turned over by his firends to several others who could do no more than the former did. But at length, thinking upon some words of waht she was heart to say, they caused her to b3e brought to him; and nothwithstanding he had eat nothing for some time, neither could he drink, insomuch, that at length, he became a mere shadow, but when she was brought, he scratched her, by which means he drawed blood; and having been b lind for a considerable time, fasted, and what not, he instantly could sue any thing, and eat as heartily as ever; he also went to STool, and though he and eat all the victuals in town, but when his excrement came forth, there was observed several pins in it. 

Upon which they went to one who seemed to have some skill, she lives in Goodmans-field; she advised them to boil his water in a stone bottle, which they did accordingly, the Young man being present, who could see at that time the bottle burst and flew in several pieces, and nothwithstanding noon of the pieces touched him, he was instantly struck blind, to the admiration of all that see it. All which having been done, he lay as before for many week sand being in such a woeful condition, was to scratch himself for some time, which he did perform by the help of some neighbours, and was also delivered in his sight as before. At which time he could both eat, drink, see and and talk, as well as ever; and although he had eat no victuals and some weeks, he voided excrement with several Pins.

So he continued well for some time, but at length grew as bad as ever, when at the same one was Parrot a Boat-Builder was taken in as bad a manner, whough not altogether so strange as like wife the child of one Mr. Swan dwelling near the same place, all which made the whoel neighbourhood to imagine her to the Person guilty. Therefore he was accordingly carried, or ortherwise led to scratch her, which he did, and no sooner had he done it, but he was as well as before, though in a little time after was back again. And a third time being ordered to do as before, he did it, when at the same time having survived her, he became well seemingly to the world, although he did not continue so long, but that he fell into the same condition as before; and it was observed that she said at that time, that her blood should do him no good, but rather wife. And indeed, as she said, it did for the time continue as before, and rather worse, being left off as incurable by several doctors; whereupon several of the inhabitants took upon them to inspects more into his condition, more especially one several of the inhabitants, took upon them to inspect more into his condition, more especially one Mr. Smith, a lighter-man, and one Mr. Richard Oldner, eminent men, and officers of the same parish, who took upon them to prove whether it was a cheat or not; whereupon on Saturday the 12th of this instant April, 1701, they caused him to be put into an empty house, where they had provided good bedding, as also watchment ot take turns two by two, both night and day, the officers themselves keeping the key and no one should go unto him. Night or day, but the said watchmen. the more discover the truth.

Her examination.
Being carried before the foremntioned Sir Thomas Lane, she was examined as to the fact; which she delayed. Whereupon several evidences appeared against her, who said, that she had privately been repurted an ill liver for many years. and another deposed an oath, that she said (all the time of he scratching her) it should do him no good, but rather make him sick. Another witness deposed on oath, that she him once void a stool which was as big as ones wrist, inside was several pins, and not only so, but that she see him scratch her, as soon after he both eat and drank notwithstanding he had not eat for some time before, having been looked after by several people. 

Another said he was a watchman, employed by the officers of the parish; and had watched with him by turns, from Saturday the 12th, to Saturday the 17th; during which time, he see him eat nor drink nothing; and that it was reported, he had eat nothing for many weeks before. But on Thursday last she see him void five pins out of his mouth. On Sunday the 20th, he likewise see him void two more. But on Friday last, several eminent persons went to see him, more especially one Mr. Richard Oldner, the church-warden of St. Mary Ovary who defied him to drink a glass of comfortable water, and as he was drinking of it, it flew out of his mouth with great force; and for a truth, it is alleged, he has not eat nor drank in nine weeks time. All which being proved against her, and the witnesses sworn, it was desired that the young man (which was the object) might scratch her again, and he did accordingly, and although Dr. Hambleton had by several means, to make him eat an ddrink before, he could not. But having scratched her in presence of them all, he presently called for victuals, which was immediately brought to him by the justice's order, viz. Sir Thomas Lane, being no otherways then bread and cheese, which he craved for: and it was observed that he at the same time eat more than an ordinary man had eat in three days, and still continued craving for more. At the same time Sir Thomas ordered him into a room both, two or three persons, when in his going, he made a considerable deal of water in his britches, and a small time after voided a little excrement.

It was observed that when he was going to scratch her, she desired he might not scratch her face; as likewise that some body would be bound that he might not scratch her any more all which was not granted to her, but only that he should not touch her face. As likewise, she was heard to say the same time that he would be well when had scratched her; and accordingly he was so, soon after he desired some food, which was brought to him, these circumstances caused her to be committed to gaol, in order to receive a further examination and trial. 

And as she was going it was observed, she said she would be revenged of several of them, &tc. 

Licensed according to order.

Alkin near Fleet-street.