A Detection of damnable drifts, practised by three VVitches arraigned at Chelmisforde in Essex, at the last Assizes there holden, which were executed in April. 1579.

Set forth to discover the Ambushementes of Satan, whereby he would surprise vs lulled in security, and hardened with contempt of Gods vengeance threatened for our offences.

 Imprinted at London for Edward White, at the little North-dore of Paules.
 
To the Reader.
ACcept this pamphlet (Christian Reader) view, and peruse it with discretion, and hatefulness. No trifles are therein contained worthy to be contēned, nor pernicious fantasies deserving to bee condemned. But contrariwise in this pretty plot may wholesome herbs of admonitions for the unwary, and careless, and soot flowers to recreate the wearied senses, be gathered. For on the one side the clear sight may epsy the ambushmentes, which Satan the secrete woorkemaister of

 


wicked drifts, hath placed in most parts of this realm, either by crafty conueighaunces, to creep into the conceits of the simple, or by apparent treachery to undermine and spoil the states of such as God permits him to have power over. And on the other side the eye that is wimpled, may hereby be advertised of the darkness, wherewith his understanding is overcast, and putting of the veil of vanity, may reclaim his concept, and esteem of the impiety of the offenders and villainy of their acts, according to the word of God, and weightiness of the case. And if in time past he hath escaped their Sorceries, let him not the less


fear the harms that may hereafter ensue. For the Devil by the sufferance of almighty God, is as well able to plague the person, that most presumes of safety, as any have bin who in this treatise are mentioned. Some with much ado cā be awaked out of their drowsy dreams, though they bee told that their neighbours house is on fire. But when their own walls are invaded with like flames, they shall find that it had bin better to have come an hour too soon, to quench those foreign fires, then to have risen one minute too late to extinguish the same, creeping into their own chambers. If therefore thou be assured that thy neighbour,
 


either in body, family, or goods is impaired by damnable witchcraft, or perceives by information, or other wise ought of such devises, intēded to be practised, or likely presumption of such Devilish deeds contrived, for Charity to thy Christian brother, and tender regard of thine own state, prevent or stop the mischief by all possible means. And for thine own part with prayer, and assured faith in the merits of Christ Iesus shield thy self, so shall neither the Devil nor his Angles have power, over thee, or thine.
Farewell.

The Confession of Elizabeth France, late of Hatfield in Essex.
IMprimis, the said Elizabeth France cōfessed that about Lent last (as she now remembers) she came to one Pools wife her neighbour, and required some old yest of her, but being denied the same, she departed towards one good wife Osbornes house a neighbour dwelling thereby of whom she had yest, and in her way going towards the said good wife Osbornes house, she cursed Pools wife, and bad a mischief to light upon her, for that she would give her no yest, Whereupon suddenly in the way she hard a great noise, and presently there appeared unto her a Spirit of a white colour in seeming like to a little rugged Dog, standing near her upon the ground, who asked her whether she went? she answered for such things as she wanted, and she told him therewith that she could get no yeest of Pools wife and therefore wisled the same Spirit to go to her and plague her, which the Spirit promised to doe, but first he bad her give him somewhat, then she having in her hand a crust of white bread, did bite a piece thereof and threw it upon the ground, which she thinks he took up and so went his way, but before he departed from her she willed him too plague Pools wife in the head, and since then she never saw him, but she hath harde by her neighbours that the same Pools wife was grievously pained in her head not lunge after, and remains very sore pained still, for on saturday last past this Examinate talked with her.
2 Item this Elizabeth France says further, that she knows one Elizabeth Lord awidowe, dwelling in the same parish of Hatfield and so hath done of lunge time, of whom she hard, that about seven or eight years paste she brought drink in a crewse, and gave it to one Ihon France servant to goodman



Some of the same parish, shortly after the taking of which drink he sickened, and died.
3 Item she further confesses that she likewise knows that the same Widow Lord, was said to have bewitched one Ione Roberts, servant to old Higham, in a piece of an Apple cake which she gave her, upon the eating whereof she presently sickened, and not long after died.

4 Item she also confesses, that she knows one Mother Osborne, a Widow in the same town to be a witch, and that she hath a mark in the end of one of her fingers like a pitt, and an other mark upon the outside of her right leg, which she thinks to bee plucked out by her Spirit: and that one Mother Waterhouse her own sister (long since executed for Witch craft) had the self same marks, whithe she terms (nippes) and she says that this Mother Osborne lying lame, and complaining of her sore leg, she the said Elizabeth France came unto her, and required to see her leg, which being showed unto her, she the said Elizabeth bad to pnt it into the bed again, saying: that she her self knew that the same

 


came, by want of well serving of God. And thus much for Elizabeth France.

The Evidence given against Elaine Smithe of Milton.
THere was one Ihon Chaundeler dwelling in Milton, whose wife named Alice Chaundeler, was mother unto this Elaine Smithe, and for Witchcraft was executed long before, after whose execution he went unto his daughter in law Alain Smithe, and demanded certain money of her, which she had received of her mother his wife, by means of which money they fell out, and in falling out the said Elaine in great rage said unto him, that it had been better for him, he had never fallen out with her, and so it came to posse, for the same Ihon Chaundeler confessed before his death, that after the same hour that she had said so unto him, he nener eat any meat that digested in him, but ever it came up again as soon as it was done, by which means he consumed, and wasted away to his death.

2 The son of the foresaid Ellen Smithe,



of the age of thirteen years, or there abouts, came to the house of one Ihon Eastwood of Molten, for to beg an almose, who chid the boy away from his door, whereupon he went home and told his mother, and within a while after the said Eastwood was taken with very great pain in his body, and the same night following, as he sat by the fire with one of his neighbours, to their thinking they did see a Rat run up the Chimney, and presently it did fall down again in the likeness of a Tod, and taking it up with the tongges, they thrust it into the fire, and so held it in Forcesibly, it made the fire burn as blew as Azure, and the fire was almost out, and at the burning thereof the said Ellen Smithe was in great pain and out of quiet, whereupon dissemblyngly she came to the house of the fore said Ihon Eastwood, and asked how all that were there did, and he said well I thank God, and she said, I thought you had not been well, and therefore I came to see how you did, and so went her way.
3 Also it was avouched, and by this prisoner confessed, that where as her daughter, and the daughter of one Widow Web of Milton before said, did fall out and fight, the same Alain

 


Smithe offended thereat, meeting good wife Webs daughter the next day, gave her a blow on the face, whereupon so soon as the child came home she sickened, and languishing two days, cried continually, away with the Witch, away with the Witch, and so died. And in the morning immediately after the death of the same child, the said good wife Web espied (as she thought) a thing like to a black Dog go out at her door, and presently at the sight thereof, she fell distraught of her wits.
4 Besides the son of this Mother Smith, confessed that his mother did keep three Spirits, whereof the one called by her great Dicke, was enclosed in a wicker Bottle: The second named Little Dicke, was put into a Leather Bottle: And the third termed Willet, she kept in a Wolle Pack. And thereupon the house was commanded to bee searched. The Bottles and pack were found, but the Spirits were vanished away.


The effect of the Evidence against Mother Staunton, late of Wimbishe in Essex, who was arraigned, but not executed, for that no manslaughter, or murder was objected against her.




IMprimis, this Mother Staunton, late of the parish of Wimbishe in Essex, came to the house of one Thomas Prat of Broke Walden, Thou Farrour of Libleburie being present, and one Thomas Swallow, and the said Mother Staunton, being demanded by one of them how she did, she answered, that a knave had beaten her: saying she was a Witch, then said he again, in good faith Mother Staunton, I think you bee no Witch, no Master {quod} she, I am none in deed, although I can tell what belongs to that practise, of which words, the goodman of the house took witness of the aforenamed parties, and delivered a bill subscribed mith their hands thereof, to Master George Nicolas.
2 Item, the said Mother Staunton came to his house an other time, and after certain words of anger between him and her, he raced her face with a Nedle, what quoth she, have you a Flea there: and the next night after, the said Pratte was so grievously taken with torment of his Limbs, that he never thought to have lived one hour longer, which also was subscribed and sent.

 


3 Item, she came the third time by his bore with Grains, and he demanding a few of her, she asked what he would doe with them, I will give them, said he, to my Chickens, and snatchyng a handful from her, did so. But after they had tasted of them, three or four dozen of them died, and only one Chicken escaped of them all.
4 Item, she came on a time to the house of one Richard Saunder of Brokewalden, and being denied Yeest, which she required of his wife, she went her way murmuring, as offended with her answer, and after her departure, her young child in the Cradle was taken vehemently sick, in a merue•lous strange manner, whereupon the mother of the child took it up in her arms to comfort it, which being done, the Cradle rocked of it self, six or seven times, in presence of one of the Earl of Surreis gentlemen, who saying it stabbed his dagger three or four times into the Cradle ere it stayed: Merrily jesting and saying, that he would kill the Devil, if he would bee rocked there.

5 Item, the said Mother Staunton, came on a time to the house of one Robert Petie of



Brookewalden, and being denied by his wife diverse things, which she demanded at once, and also charged with the stealing of a Knife from thence, she went her way in great anger, and presently after her departure, the little child of the said Petie fell so strangely sick as for the space of a Week, as no body thought it would live.
6 Item, the said Stauntons wife, came also to one William Corners house of Brokewalden upon a Friday, as she had done often in times paste, and being denied of certain things which she craved, as a piece of Leather &c. she asked the good wife how many children she had, who answered one, which child being then in perfect health, was presently taken with such a sweat and coldness of body, and fell into such shrieking and staring, wringing and writhing of the body to and fro, that all that saw it, were doubtful of the life of it.

7 Item, she came on a time to the house of Robert Corneal of Suersem, and craved a Bottle of Milk of his wife, but being denied it, she departed for a little while, leaving her own Bottle behind her, and took an other with her, that belonged to the before said Corneal,

 


after three days she came again, and requested her own Bottle, and restored the other, craving Milk as before, the wife of the house always suspecting her to bee a Witch denied her request, and barred the doors against her, whereupon she sat down upon her heals before the door, and made a Circle upon the ground with a knife. After that she dug it full of holes with in the compass, in the sight of the said wife, her man, and her maid, who demanding why she did so? She made answer, that she made a shitting house for her self after that sort, and so departed, the next day the wife coming out at the same door, was taken sick, and began to swell frō time to time, as if she had been with child, by which swelling she came so great in body, as she feared she should burst: and to this day is not restored to health.
8 Item, she came often to the house of one Ihon Hopwood of Walden, and had continaally her requests, at the last being denied of a Leathern thong, she went her way offended and the same night his Gelding in the stable, being the day before in very good case, died suddenly, and afterword being burdeined with all, she never denied it.

Item, she coming to the house of Ihon Corneal the younger of Wimbishe, and being denied her demand, she took offence, and immediately after his cattle in steed of sweet Milk, yielded gore stinking blood, and one of his Kine fell into such miserable plight, that for a certain space, he could by no means recover her.
Item, she came on a time to the Uicars house at Wimbishe, and being denied her errand by his wife (he being as then from home) his little son in the Nurses lapp was taken with such vehemēt sickness, that the beholders supposed no less, but it would straight have died, the said Mother Staunton sitting by, and having touched the child before it grew sick: but within one hour after the Vicar came home the child recovered perfectly, and played as before.

Item, also she came on a time to the house of ove Rohart Lathburie, of the same Town, who disliking her dealing, sent her home empty, but presently after her departure, his Hogs fell sick and died, to the number of twenty, and in the end he burned one, whereby as he thinks, he saved the rest: He also had a Cow strangely caste into a narrow

 


gripe, and being helped out in the presence of master Henry Mordant, notwithstanding the diligent care that was takn of her, she was in few days three times like to be lost in the mite. And thus much for Mother Staunton.

The effect of the Evidence given in against Mother Nokes late of Lamberd Parish in Essex.
A Certain Servant to Thomas Spycer of Lamberd End in Essex yoman, sporting, and passing away the time in play with a great number of youth, chanced to snatch a pair of Gloves out of the pocket of this Mother Nokes Daughter being a young woman of the age of xxviij years, which he protests to have done in jest. Her Mother perceiving it, demanded the Gloves of him, but he giving no great ear to her words departed towards the fields to fetch home certain Cattle. Immediately upon his departure quoth the same Mother Nokes to her Daughter, let him alone, I will bounce him well enough, at what time he being suddenly taken, and reft of his limbs sell down. There was a boy then in his company by whom he sent the Gloves to Mother Nokes. Notwithstanding his Master was fine to cause him to be set home in a Wheel Barrow, and to bee laid into a bed, where with his legs a cross he lay beddred eight days, and as yet hath not attained to the right use of his limbs.
Further it was avouched that mother Nokes had said that her husband lay with one Tailers wife of Lamberd End, and with reproachful words reviled her saying at last; thou hast a Nurse child but thou shalt not keep it long, and presently thereupon the Child died.

Another affirmed, that when he had reproved the said Tailers wife, and Mother Nokes as they were at Church, and willed them to agree better, the same Mother Nokes in a fume answers that she cared for none of them all, as lunge as Tom held on her side, meaning her Fiend.

The same man having a servant of his at Plough, this Mother Nokes going by, asked the fellow a question but getting no answer
of him she went her way. Forthwith one of his horses fell down. At his coming home to dinner, he told his Master howe the same horse was swollen about the head. His Master at first supposing that it came by a strype, was greatly offended at the ploughman, but afterwards understanding of Mother Nokes going by, and the circumstance before mentioned, went to the said Mother Nokes and chid and threatened to have her to her answer, howbeeit the Horse died.
    FINIS.