A true and just Record, of the Information, Examination and Confession of all the Witches, taken at S. Oses in the county of Essex: whereof some were executed, and other some entreated according to the determination of law. Wherein all men may see what a pestilent people Witches are, and how unworthy to live in a Christian Commonwealth.

Written orderly, as the cases were tried by evidence, By W. W.

Imprinted in London at the three Cranes in the Vinetree by Thomas Dawson 1582.



To the right honourable and his singular good Lord, the Lord Darcey, W. W. wishes a prosperous continuance in this life to the glory of God, and a daily preservation in Gods fear to his endless joy.
IF THERE HATH BIN at any time (Right Honourable) any means used, to appear the wrath of God, to obtain his blessing, to terrify secret offenders by open transgressors punishments, to withdraw honest natures from the corruption of evil company, to diminish the great multitude of wicked people, to increase the small number of virtuous persons, and to reform all the detestable abuses, which the perverse wit and will of man doth daily devise, this doubtless is no less necessary then the best, that Sorcerers, Wizards, or rather Dizzardes, Witches, Wisewomen (for so they will be named) are rigorously punished. Rigorously said I? Why it is too mild and gentle a term for such a merciless generation: I should rather have said most cruelly executed: for that no punishment can bee thought up, be it in never so high a degree of torment, which may be deemed sufficient for such a devilish


& damnable practise. And why? Because al the imaginatis, al the csultatis, al the conferences, al the experiments, finally all the attempts, proceedings and conclusions of Sorcerers, Witches, and the rest of that hellish livery, are mere blasphemers against the person of the most high God; and draw so near to the nature of idolatry (for they worship Satan, unto whom they have sworn allegiance) that they are by no means to be exempted from the suspicion of that most accursed defection, nay rather they are guilty of apparaunte apostasy, which is more heinous (considering the circumstances of their ordinary actions, then any trespass against the second table, which ugly sins of blasphemy, and gross, or rather devilish idolatry ccurring in no malefactor so roūdly, as in sorcerers, witches, Inchaūters &. in wh the meet with a million of enormities more, as it were in a centre; the magistrates of foreign lands, noted so precisely, that weighing the quality of the crime, they kept a due analogy and proportion of punishment, burning them with fire, whom the common law of England (with more measure of mercy then is to be wished) strangles with a rope. An ordinary felon, and a murderer offending against the moral law of justice,* is throttled: a Sorcerer, a Witch, (whom a learned Physician is not ashamed to auoche innocent, and the Judges that


denounce sentence of death against them no better than hangmen) defying the Lord God to his face, and trampling the precious blood of that immaculate lamb Iesus Christ most despitfully under feet, is stiffled: the one dies on the gallows, and so doth the other: wherein doubtless there is a great inequality of justice, considering the inequality of the trespass, which deserves a death so much the more horrible, by how much the honour of God is eclipsed, and the glory due to his inviolable name most abominably defaced, even to the uttermost villainy that they can put in practise.

This I speak (Right Honourable) upon a late view of trial, taken against certain Witches in the county of Essex; the orderly process in whose examinations, together with other accidents, I diligently observing and considering their treacheries to be notable: undertook briefly to knife up in a few leaves of paper, their manifold abuses: and obtaining the means to have them published in print, for that a number of memorable matters are here touched, to present the same unto your Lordship, of whose gentle acceptance though I do not doubt, yet will I not be over bold thereupon to presume: but rather refer the same to your honours judgment and patronage, by way of humiliation, that going abroad under covert of your honourable name, the discourse may seem the


more credible, your lordship knowing the grounds of this whole book to be true and iustifiable, and therefore the further off from fear of impugning. But supposing I have been too tedious, and sparing to trouble your Lordship with multitude of words, I build up hope, & so put forth my book, praying the Lord here to bless your Honour, and all about you with the increase of his grace in this life, and with the presence of his divinity in the life to come. Amen.

Your Honours to command W. W.


 The xix. day of February the xxiiii. year of the reign of our Sovereign Lady Queen Elizabeth.
The information of Grace Thurlowe, the wife of Iohn Thurlowe, taken before me Brian Darcey the day and year above said, against Vrsley Kemp alias Grey, as follows.
THE said grace says, that about xii. months past, or near there abouts, her son Day Thurlowe, being strangely taken and greatly tormented, Ursley Kemp alias Gery came unto the said Grace to see how the child did: At which time the child lying upon a bed in the chimney corner, she the said Ursley took it by the hand, saying, A good child howe art thou laden and so went thrice out of the doors, and every time when she came in she took the child by the hands, and said A good child howe art thou laden: And so at her departure, the said Grace prayed the said Ursley to come again unto


her at night to help her. And thereupon she the said Ursley replied, and said, I warrant thee I, thy Child shall doe well enough: and ye night it fell to rest, the which it did not of a long time before. And the next day the said Grace going to mill ward meeting the said Ursley, she asked her howe her child did, and she said it took good rest this night God be thanked, I I said the said Ursley, I warrant thee it shall doe well. Note, that the palm of the childes hands were turned where the backs should bee, and the back in the place of the palms.

The said Grace saith also, that about three quarters of a year ago she was delivered of a woman child, and saith, that shortly after the birth thereof the said Ursley fell out with her, for that she would not suffer her to have the nursing of that child, at such times as she the said Grace continued in work at the Lord Duces place: And saith, that she the said Grace nursing the said child, within some short time after that falling out, the child lying in the Cradle, and not above a quarter old, fell out of the said Cradle, and brake her neck, and dyed. The which the said Ursley hearing to have happened made answer it makes no matter. For she might have suffered


me to have the keeping and nursing of it.

And the said Grace saith, that when she lay in, the said Ursley came unto her, and seemed to bee very angry for that she had not the keeping in of the said Grace, & for that she answered unto her that she was provided: And thereupon they entered further into talk, the said Grace saying, that if she should continue lame as she had done before, she would find the means to know howe it came, and yt she would creep upon her knees to complain of them to have justice done upon them. And to that she the said Ursley said, it were a good turn. Take heed (said Grace) Ursley, thou hast a naughty name. And to that Ursley made answer, though she could vnwitche she could not witch, and so promised the said Grace, that if she did send for her privily, and send her keeper away, that then she would show the said Grace, how she should vnwitch herself or any other at any time.

And the said Grace further saith, that about half a year past she began to have a lameness in her bones, & specially in her legs, at which time ye said Ursley came unto her vsent for and without request: And said, she would help her of her lameness, if she the said Grace would give


her xii. pence, ye which the said Grace speaking her fair, promised her so to doe, and thereupon for the space of v. weeks after, she was well & in good case as she was before. And then the said Ursley came unto the said Grace, and asked her ye money she promised to her. Whereupon the said Grace made answer, that she was a poor and a needy woman, and had no money: & then the said Ursley requested of her cheese for it: but she said she had none. And she the said Ursley, seeing nothing to be had of the said Grace, fell out with her, and said, that she would bee even with her: and thereupon she was taken lame, and from that day to this day hath so continued.

And she saith, that when she is any thing well or begins to amend, then her child is tormented, and so continues for a time in a very strange case, and when he begins to amend: Then she the said Grace becomes so lame, as without help she is not able to arise, or to turn her in her bed.

The information of Anise Letherdall, wife of Richard Letherdall, taken by me Brian Darcey Esquire, against Vrsley Kemp, alias Grey the xix. day of February.

THe said Anise saith, that before Michaelmas last, she the said Ursley sent her son to the said Letherdals house, to have scouring sand, and sent word by the said boy, yt his mother would give her the dying of a pair of women's hose for the sand: But the said Anise knowing her to be a naughty beast sent her none. And after she the said Ursley, seeing her girl to carry some to one of her neighbours houses, murmured as the said child said, & presently after her child was taken as it lay very big, with a great swelling in the bottom of the belly, and other privy parts. And the said Anise saith, yt about the tenth day of February last she went unto the said Ursley, and told her that she had been forth with a cunning body, which said, yt she the said Ursley had bewitched her child: To yt the said Ursley answered, that she knew she had not so been, and so talking further she said, that she would lay her life that she the said Anise had not been with any: whereupon she requested a woman being in the house a spinning with the said Ursley, to bear witness what she had said. And the next day the child was in most piteous case to behold, whereby she thought it good to Carry the same unto mother Ratcliffe, for that she had some experience of her skill, The which when the said mother


Ratcliffe did see, she said to the said Anise that she doubted she should doe it any good, yet she ministered unto it, &c.

The information of Thomas Rabbit, of the age of viii. years or there abouts, base son to the said Vrsley Kemp alias Grey, taken before me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices, the xxv. day of February, against his said mother.
THe said Thomas Rabbit saith, that his said mother Ursley kemp alias Grey hath four several spirits, the one called Tyffin, the other Tottey, the third Pigine, & the fourth Jack & being asked of what colours they were, saith, that Tyttey is like a little grey Cat, Tyffin is like a white lamb, Pygine is blacklike a Toad, and Jack is black like a Cat. And he saith, he hath seen his mother at times to give the beer to drink, and of a white Lofe or Cake to eat, and saith that in the night time the said spirits will come to his mother, and suck blood of her upon her arms and other places of her body.

This Examinat being asked, whether he had seen Newmans wife to come unto his mother, saith, that one morning he being in ye chamber


with his mother, his Godmother Newman came unto her, and saith, that then he heard her and his mother to chide, and to fall out: But saith before they parted they were friends: and that then his mother delivered an earthen pot unto her, in the which he thinks her spirits were, the which she carried away with her under her aperne.

And this examinat saith, that within a few days after the said Newmans wife came unto his mother, and yt he heard her to tel his mother that she had sent a spirit to plague Iohnson to ye death, and an other to plague his wife.

The information of Ales Hunt, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the xxiiii. day of February, against Ioan Pechey widow.
THis examinat Ales Hunt saith, that she dwells in ye next house unto ye said Ioan Pechey, & yt she the said Ioan two or three days before Christmas last, went to ye house of Iohnson ye Collector appointed for ye poor, whereas she ye said Ioan received beef & bread, the which this Examinat saith, she heard to bee of the gift of ye said Bri Darcey). And this examinat saith that ye said Ioan going homewards, murmured & found great fault at Iohnson, saying, he might have given that to a girl or another,


and not to her, saying, the bread was to hard baked for her, and that she then seemed to bee in a great anger therewithal. This examinat saith, she was at that present in the house of the widow Hunt, and that there was but a wall between them, The said Ioan coming to her house did unlock her door, the which this examinat did see her doe: And after she was entered into her house, this examinat saith, she hard the said Ioan to say, yea are you so saucy? are ye so bold? you were not best to bee so bold with me: For if you will not bee ruled, you shall have Symonds sauce, yea said the said Ioan, I perceive if I doe give you an inch, you you will take an ell: and saith she is assured that there was no christian creature with her at that time, but that she used those speeches unto her Imps.

And this examinat saith, that she hath heard her mother say, that she the said Ioan was skilful and cunning in witchery, and could do as much as the said mother Barnes, this examinats mother, or any other in this town of S. Osees. And further saith, she hath hard her mother to say, yt the said Ioan did know what was said or done in any mans house in this town.


The information of Margerie Sammon, sister to the said Ales Hunt, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the xxv. day of February against the said Ioan Pechey as follows.
THe said Margerie saith, that she hath hard the widow Hunt to say, that the said Ioan Pechey should say that she could tell what any man said or did at any time in their houses, when & as often as she listed: and saith, that the said widow Hunt did tell her that she hath harde the said Ioan Pechey, being in her house, very often to chide and vehemently speaking as though there had been some body present with her: And saith, that she went in to see to whom the said Ioan should speak, but she found no body but her self all alone: And says, that she the said Ioan Pechey was with this examinates mother, mother Barnes, the day before she departed, where this examinate left them together while she went home to her mistress house to doe her business and work.

The information of Iohn Tendering of Saint Osees, take before me Brian Darcey esquire, the xxvi. of February 1582.

THe said Iohn saith, that William Byette having occasion to come to this examinate, says, that after they had conferred and talked, he the said William Byet did declare to this examinate, That, that morning he did tell him that he had a Cow with had lien two days or longer in a strange case, and had eaten nothing, and was not likly to live, & that he and his servants several times had lifted at the said •owe to raise her upon her feet, but they could not make her to arise or stand: whereupon he told this examinat, that he had caused his said seruts to fetch straw, and to lay the same round about her: And that he himself took an Axe, minding to knock her upon the head, and so to burn her: And said that the fire being kindled, the said Cow of her self start up, and r her way until it came to a wood stack▪ and there stood still, and fell a biting of sticks, bigger then any mans finger, and after li•ed and did well.

The information of Febey Hunt, daughter in law to Ales Hunt, of the age viii. years or there abouts, taken before me Brian Darcey esquire, the xxv. day of Frbuarie against Ales Hunt her mother.
THe said Febey hunt saith, yt she hath seen her mother to have two little things like


horses, the one white, the other black, the which she kept in a little lowe earthen pot with woll, colour white and black: and that they stood in her chamber by her bed side, and saith, that she hath seen her mother to feed them with milk out of a black trening dish, and this examinat being carried after this confess by the Constables to her fathers house, she showed them the place were they stood and the board that covered them: And this examinate chose out the dish, out of which they were fed, from amongst many other dishes. She this examinat did also confess that her mother had charged her not to tell any thing, what she had seen: And if she did those things would take her, and this examinate saith, that her mother did send them to Hayward of Frowicke, but to what end she can not tell, & she being asked howe she knew the same, says, that she hard her mother bid them to go.

The information of William Hook Painter, taken before me Brian Darcey esquire, the xxiii of February, against Ales Newman.
THis examinate William Hook saith, yt he dwells in the next house unto Ales Newm, & saith, that he hath hard William Newem her husbd to say unto ye said Ales his wife, yt she


was the cause of her husbands great misery and wretcher state, and says, that when the said Ales doth give her husband any meat to eat, then presently he the said William saith to his wife, doest thou not see? doest thou see? whereunto this examinate saith, that he hath heard the said Ales to say, if thou see any thing, give it some of thy meat. And saith further, that he hath heard the said William Newman bid the said Ales his wife to beat it away.

The information of Elizabeth Bennet, taken by me Brian Darsey esquire, the xxiiii. day of February 1582 against Ales Newman.
THe said Elizabeth saith, that she never sent any spirit to plague Iohnson or his wife, neither knew sheemother Newm to have sent any of her spirits to plague him or his wife, she this examinate for her part saith, she was greatly beholding to the said Iohnson and his wife. But denies that ever she sent any spirit to hurt him and his wife: or that she knew mother Newman to have hurt them. But this examinat saith, that she being at Iohnsons to have wool to spin, he being a clothmaker, of whom she had many times work, At that present mother Newman being come thither, she this examinate


faith she hard the said mother Newman to desire Iohnson to give her xii.d. saying: her husband lay sick, whereunto she heard him answer that he would gladly help her husband: but that he had laid out a great deal more then he had received, saying, he was a pore man, and he, his wife and family, might not want for the helping of her husband, saying that he could not help her with any, until he had collected more money, whereupon she departed, and used some harde speeches unto him, and seemed to be much angry.

The examination & confess of Vrsley Kemp alias Gray, taken at S. Osees, and brought before me Brian Darsey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of the peace, the xx. day of February 1582.
Condemned.

THe said Ursley Kemp says, that about ten or eleven years posse, she this examinate was troubled with a lameness in her bones, and for ease thereof, went to one Cocks wife of Wily, now deceased, who telled this examinate that she was bewitched, and at her entreaty aught her to vnwitche her self And ad her take hogs dung and chervell,


and put them together and hold them in her left hand, and to take in the other hand a knife, and to prick the medicine three times, & then to cast the same into the fire, and to take the said knife & to make three pricks under a table, and to let the knife stick there: & after that to take three leues of sage, and as much of herb Iohn (alias herb grace) and put them into ale, and drink itlast at night and first in the morning, & that she taking the same, had ease of her lamnesse.

The said examinate saith, that one Pages wife, and one Greys wife, being either of them same and bewitched: she being requested and sent for to come unto them, went unto them: And says, that she knew them to bee bewitched, and at their desires did minister unto them the foresaid medicine, whereupon they had speedy amendment.

The said Brian Darcey then promising to the said Vrsley, that if she would deal plainly and confess the truth, that she should have favour: & so by giving her fair speeches she confessed as follloweth.
THe said Ursley bursting out with weeping, fell upon her knees, and confessed that


she had four spirits, whereof two of them were hes, and the other two were shees: the two he spirits were to punish and kill unto death, and the other two shees were to punish with lameness, and other diseases of bodyly harm, and also to destroy cattle.

And she this examinate, being asked by what name or names she called the said spirits, and what manner of things, or colour they were of: confesses and saith, that the one is called Tiey, being a he, and is like a gray Cat, the second called Jack, also a he, and is like a black Cat, the third is called Pigin, being a she, and is like a black Toad, the fourth is called Tyffin, being a she, and is like a white lamb.

This examinate being further asked, which of the said spirits she sent to punish Thorlowes wife and Letherdalls child, confessed and said, that she sent Tyttey to punish Thorlows wife, and Pigen Letherdalls Child.

And this examinate, without any asking of her own free will at that present, confessed and said, yt she was the death of her brother Kemps wife, and that she sent the spirit Jack to plague her, for that her sister had called her whore and witch.

And this examinate further confessed,


that upon the falling out between Thorlowes wife and her, she sent Tyffin, the spirit unto her child, which lay in the Cradle, and willed the same to the the Cradle over, so as the child might fall out thereof, and break the neck of it.

These foresaid 5. last recited matters, being confessed by the said Ursley privately to me the said Brian Darcey, were afterwards (supper being ended, and she called again before me, the said Brian) recited and particularly named unto her all which she confessed, as before in the presence of vs, whose names bee herevnder subscribed.

Also after this examinates aforesaid confession, the said Thorlows wife, and Letherdalles wife being then in my house, and she the said Letherdalls wife having her child there also, were brought in my presence before this examinate: who, immediately after some speeches had past between them, she this examinate burst out in tears and fell upon her knees, and asked forgiveness of the said Letherdalls wife, and likewise of Thorlows wife, and confessed that she caused Newmans wife to send a spirit to plague the child, asking the said Letherdalls wife, if she were not afraid that night that the spirit came unto the child, and telled her about


the same hour, and said that she her self by reason thereof was in a great swett. And this examinate confesses, that she caused the said Newmans wife, to send a spirit to Thorlowes wife, to plague her where that thought good, &c.

The said Letherdals child (being a woman child)) at the time of this examination, appeared to bee in most piteous sort consumed, and the privy and hinder parts thereof, to be in a most strange and wonderful case, as it seemed to very honest women of good judgment, and not likely to live and continue any long time.

Note also that it is specially to be considered, that the said child being an infant and not a year old, the mother thereof carrying it in her arms, to one mother Ratcliffes a neighbour of hers, to have her to minister unto it, was to posse by Ursley this examinates house, and passing bye the window, the Infant cried to the mother, wo, wo, and pointed with the finger to the window wards: And likewise the child used the like as she passed homewards by the said window, at which she confessed her conscience moved her, so as she went shortly after and talked with the said Ursley, whereupon

she used such speeches as moved her to complain.

The second confession and examination of Vrsley Kemp, takē the xxi. day of February.
The said Vrsley, being committed to the ward & keeping of the Constable that night, upon some speeches that she had passed, said, that she had forgotten to tell M. Darcey one thing, whereupon the next day she was brought before Brian Darcey, & the second time examined, who confessed and said.

THat about a quarter of a year last past, one Ales Neweman, her ne'er neighbour came unto this examinates house and fell out with her, and said she was a witch, and that she would take away her witchery, and carry the same unto M. Darcey: But this examinate says, she thought she did not mean it, but after they had chidden they became friends, and so she departed carrying away with her, her spirits in a pot, as this examinate saith.

And she further saith, that about Christmas last, she went to the said Ales Newman, and declared to her that Thorlows wife and she were fallen out, and prayed the said Newmans wife,


to send the spirit called Tittey, unto her to plague the said Thorlowes wife, where that thought good: The which this examinate saith, she did, and at the return of the said spirit it told this examinate, that it had punished Throlowes wife upon her knee, And then it had a reward by sucking blood of this examinate, and so returned as she saith to the said Ales Neweman.

This examinate saith, that about three months past, she and one Iohn Stratton fell out, and the said Iohn called her whore & gave her other evil speeches, whereupon this examinate saith, that shortly after she sent her Boy for spices unto the wife of the said Iohn: But she says, she sent her none, whereupon this examinate says, she went unto the said Newmans wife, and told her of the falling out between Stratton and her, and requested the said Newmans wife, to send Jack the spirit unto Strattons wife to plague her, ye which the said Ales Newman promised this examinate to doe the next night, as this examinate saith she did: And the spirit told this examinate when it returned, that it had plagued her in the back even unto death: and the spirit did suck of this examinate upon the left thigh, the which when she rubbeth (she saith) it will at all times bleed.


And she says that then the spirit did return to the said Newemans wife again, and had the like reward of her as she thinks.

This examinate says, that about Friday was seven-night being about the nienth of February, she went unto the said Ales Newman, and did show her that one Letherdalls wife and she were fallen out, and saith, that she prayed her to send one of the spirits unto her young child: whereunto she the said Ales answered well, she would: and this examinate saith, that at that time she could have no longer talk with her, for that her husband was then present in the house: and this examinat saith, that the said Ales sent the spirit Pigin, to plague ye said child where that thought good, and after that it had sucked of this examinate, she saith it returned to the said Newmans wife, and more at that time the said examinate confessed not.

The third examination & confession of Vrsley Kemp alias Gray, taken before me Brian Darsey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of the peace, the xxiiii. day of February.
THis examinate, being asked how she knew the said Elizabeth Bennet to have two spirits,


saith, that about a quarter of a year past, she went unto mother Bonnets house for a mess of milk, the which she had promised her: But at her coming this examinate saith she knocked at her door, and no body made her any answer, whereupon she went to her chamber window and looked in thereat, saying, ho, ho, mother Bennet are you at home? And casting her eyes aside, she saw a spirit lift up a clothe lying over a pot, looking much like a Ferret. And it being asked of this examinate why the spirit did look upon her, she said it was hungry.

This examinate, being asked howe she knew the names of mother Bonnets spirits, saith, that Tyffin her spirit did tell this examinate that she had two spirits, the one of them like a black Dog, and the other red like a Lyon, and that their names were Suckin and Lyerd, and says that Suckin did plague Byettes wife unto death, and the other plagued three of his Beasts whereof two of them dyed, and the third layer fire or drooping, & not likly to live: Byette caused his folks to make a fire about her: The Cow feeling the heate of the fire, start up and ran her way, and by that occasion was saved.


This examinate says, that about the fourteen or fifteen day of January last, she went to the house of William Hunt to see howe his wife did, and she being from home, she called at her chamber window and looked in, and then espied a spirit to look out of a potcharde from under a clothe, the nose thereof being browne like unto a Ferret. And says, that the same night she asked Tyffin her white spirit, what Hunts wives spririte had done: And then it told this examinate, that it had killed Hayward of Frowicke six beasts which were lately dressed of the gargette. And says, that her said spirit told her, that Hunts wives spirit had a drop of her blood for a reward: but she says, that she asked not her spirit upon what place of her body it was.

This examinate says, that one Michell a shoemaker of Saint Osees did tell her, that he thought that Glascockes wife had bewitched his Child, whereof it dyed: Whereupon she this examinate says, that she went home, and asked Tyffin her white spirit, whether the it were so: which told this examinate, that she had bewitched the said child, and sent one of her spirits to plague it to the death.


And says also, that the said Glascockes wife did bewitch the Base child that Page and his wife have in keeping, and that her said spirit telled her so. And being demanded, howe many spirits Glascockes wife had, and by what names she called them, this examinate says, that she asked not her spirit Tyffin any such questions.

This examinat says, that the said Elizabeth Bennette did send her spirit Suckin to plague one Willingall, whereof he languished and died: being sick of an impostume.

This examinate says also, that the said Elizabeth sent the said spirit to William Wills his wife to plague her, whereof she languished many years and dyed.

This examinate says, that the said Elizabeth (not above three weeks sithence) sent her spirit Lyerd to plague Fortunes wife and his child.

This examinate says, that the said Elizabeth did send her spirit Lyerd to Boners wife to plague her, the which her said spirit, told this examinate to bee done upon the knee.

This examinate saith further, that Ales Newman went unto Iohnson being Collector

for the poor, and did require him to give her xi. d. for her husband which was sick. But he answering her that he had disbursed more money then he had collected, saying, therefore he could not then help her with any: The said Newemans wife fell out with him very angrily, and the next day after sent one of the spirits that she had from this examinate to plague the said Iohnson and his wife unto the death: And that her spirit called Tyffin did tell the same unto her, and she being asked what words the said Newemans wife used to Iohnson upon the falling out, saith, that she asked not her said spirit.

This examinate says, that Newmans wife being at Butlers, and asking a piece of meat, was denied thereof: whereat she went a way mourmuring, And then shortly after sent one of her spirits to punish him upon the back: The which Tyffin her said spirit tells this examinate was done, whereof he languishes and is greatly pained.

This examinate being asked, whether her white spirit called Tyffin did ever at any time tel her any untruths, or whether she had foūd it at any


time to tell any thing contrary to truth, saith, that the said spirit did ever tell her true in any matter she required of it, and saith, that she never knew it to tell her otherwise then truth.

This Exam. being asked, whether she sent any of her spirits to plague or punish Iohn Strattons child, confesses and saith, that the spirit which plagued Strattons wife to the death, did also punish the said Strattons child, saying, that the said child should not complain thereof until the mother were departed.

Note, it is to bee considered, that the said Ursley Kemp in this her confession hath uttered many things well approved and confessed to bee most true: And that she was brought thereunto by hope of favour.

The Examination and confession of Ales Newman, taken before me Brian Darcie Esquire, the xxi. of February.
Condemned.

THis examinat saith, that she went unto the house where the said Ursley Kemp alias Grey dwelt, and entered into communication with her, and that they fell out greatly: and confesses that she said unto the said Ursley


that she knew her to be a witch, but denies the residue of ye speeches alleged by the said Urley against this Examinat.

The said Brian Darcey finding this examinat to bee obstinate, and that she could bee brought to confess nothing, said to this Examinat, that he would sever and part her and her spirits a sunder, nay saith she this examinat, that shall ye not, for I will carry thē with me, and hold being taken of her words, after some distance she added (if she have any.)

The information of William Boner, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the xxiiii. day of February.
THe said William Boner saith, that ye said Elizabeth Bennet and his wife were lovers and familiar friends, and did accompany much together: and saith that since Candlemas last his wife hath complained of a lameness in her knee, and that sithence also she hath been much troubled. And saith also that not ten days past the said Elizabeth Bennet being with his wife, she being sickly and sore troubled, the said Elizabeth used speeches unto her, saying, a good woman how thou art laden, & then clasped her in her arms, and kissed her: Whereupon


presently after her upper Lip swelled & was very big, and her eyes much sunked into her head, and she hath lien sithence in a very strange case.

Upon the said information made by Vrsley Kemp alias Grey, against Elizabeth Bennet, I Brian Dercey directed my warrt for her apprehēsi, wherup she was brought before me the said Brian, whose confession being taken the 22. day of February.
Condemned.

THe said Elizabeth Bennet being charged with the foresaid information, denies the same in general, & after many and sundry demds being asked, whether she had not a pot or pitcher of earth stding under a pair of stairs in her house & wool in the same, in the which usually the said two spirits did lie, denied ye same with many oaths, saying, yt she was well assured yt she had none such, wherup it was said to her, if it be proved to your face, what will you say to al the other matters you have bin charged with, are they true? To that she made answer & said yea: Then was the pot brought before her, the which she then confessed to be her pot, but denied yt the wool therein was any of hers, thē I calling her unto me, said, Elizabeth as thou


wilt have favour confess the truth. For so it is, there is a man of great cunning and knoweledge come over lately unto our Queens Majesty, which hath advertised her what a company and number of Witches be within England: whereupon I and other of her Justices have received Commission for the apprehēding of as many as are within these limits, and they which doe confess the truth of their doings, they shall have much favour: but the other they shall bee burnt and hanged. At which speeches she the said Elizabeth falling upon her knees distilling tears confessed as hereafter follows.

Saying, that one William Byet dwelt in the next house unto her three years, saying, yt the first year they did agree reasonably well, but ere the second year passed they fell out sundry and oftentimes, both with this examinat & her husband Byet calling her oftentimes old trot and old witch, and did ban and curse this examinat and her Cattle, to the which this examinat saith, that she called him knave saying, wind it up Byet, for it will light upon your self: and after this falling out this examinat saith, that Byet had three beasts dyed, whereof he seeing one of them somewhat to droop, he did beat the said Cow in such sort, (as this


Examinat saith, that she thought the said Cow did die thereof.

This examinat saith further, that Byets wife did beat her swine several times with great Gybets, and did at an other time thrust a pitchfork through the side of one of this examinats swine, the which Durrant a Butcher did buy, and for that when he had dressed it, it proved A messell, this Examinat saith, she had nothing for it but received it again, &c.

This examinat saith also, that above two years past there came unto her two spirits, one called Suckin, being black like a Dog, the other called Lierd, being red like a Lion, Suckin this examinat saith is a he, and the other a she. And saith, on a time as this examinat was coming from mill, the spirit called Suckin came unto her and did take her by the coat, and held her that she could not go forward nor remove by the space of two hours, at the which (this examinat saith) she was much amassed, and she saith, that the spirit did ask her if she this examinat would go with it: Whereat she this examinat said, In the name of God, what art thou? Thou wilt not hurt me, at the which speech it said no, & this Examinat saith, that she then prayed devoutly to Almighty God to deliver her from it: at which time the spirit


did depart from her until she had gone a good way, and being come within xxx. or xl. rodes of her house, this examinat saith, that the said spirit came again unto her and took her by the coats behind, & held her fast, whereat this examinat saith, that she desired God to deliver her fr that evil spirit, and then that did depart to the Well. And this examinat saith, yt within one hour after, the same same spirit came again unto her she being a sifting of her meal, & saith, the same remained with her until she had laid her leaven, and then departed.

The said examinat saith, that the next day she being a kneading of her bread, the said spirit came again unto her, and brought the other spirit with it called Lierd, and that one of them did ask her why she was so snappish yesterday, to that this examinat saith, that she made answer, I trust I am in the faith of God, and you shall have no power over me, at which words this Examinat saith, the said spirits departed.

Then she this examinat saith, that she being a making of a fire in her Queen, the said spirits came again unto her, and took her by the leg, this examinat feeling it to take her by the leg saith she said, God and the holy Ghost deliver me from the evil spirits, at which words


this examinat saith, that the said spirits did depart to her thinking.

But this examinat saith, that within half an hour after she having a fire fork in her hd, and being a stirring of the fire in the Queen, the spirit (called Suckin) came unto her & took this examinat by the hippos, and said, seeing thou wilt not be ruled, thou shalt have a cause, & would have thrust this examinat into ye burning Oven, & so had (as this examinat saith) but for the foresaid fork, but this examinat striving and doing what she could to her uttermost, the said spirit burnt her arm, the which burning is apparent and evidently too bee seen, and when it had thus done it did depart.

And this Examinat saith, that about a month after or more, she being a walking in a croft near unto a Barn called Heywoods Barn, the spirit called Suckin came and followed this examinat, she spying the same as she looked back, at the sight thereof this examinat saith, yt her eyes were like to start out of her head: then she saith yt she did beseech God to govern and guide her from the evil spirits, whereupon she saith they did depart,

But the same evening she this examinat being set a milking of a red Cow with a white face,


saith that Suckin and Lired came again unto her, and saith that Suckin appeared at that time in the likeness of a black dog, and Lired in the likeness of a Hare, the one sitting on the one side of her, the other on the other side of her within less then two yards: And saith, that the Cow she was then a milking of, snorted and ran away, and brake her pail and spilt al her milk, neither could she get the said Cow any more that night to stand still, and saith, that for the loss thereof her husband did much chide her, but she would not tell him what was the cause: and she praying to the father, the son, & the holy ghost, saith that they did depart, and that she saw them not a quarter of a year after, nor above three times since Midsommer last.

The said exam. saith, that about that time they appeared again unto her, and saith that a little before there was a falling out between her and the said Byet, whereupon and for that Bye had oftentimes misused her this examinat and her Cattle, she saith, that she caused Lyard in ye likeness of a Lion to go & to plague the said Byets beasts unto death, and the spirit returning told this examinat that it had plagued two of his beasts, the one a red Cow, the other a black. And saith that the spirit


told her, that he plagued the black Cow in the back, and the read Cow in the head.

This Examinate says further, that about Whitsontyde last past, the spirit called, Suckin, did come again at that time unto her, sayeing to this Examinate, that he had met Byettes wife two several times, telling this Examynate, that it met her once in this Examinates yard, and the next day after it said, that it met her at the style, going into her ground: And says it told this Examinate, it had plagued ye said Byets wife to the death. She this Examinate saying it was done by the spirit, but not by the sending of this Examinate. The said spirit sayeing I know that Byet and his wife have wronged thee greatly, and done thee several hurts, and beaten thy swine, and thrust a pitchfork in one of them, the which the spirit said to have done, to win credit with this Examinate.

And this Examinate says further, that about Lemmas last past: For that the said William Byet had abused her, in calling her old trot, old whore, and other lewd speeches, she this Examinate, caused the spirit, called Suckin, to go and plague the said William Byette where that would: The which the said spirit did, and at the return of it, it


told this Examinate, that it met Byet in the barn yard, and that it had plagued him in the hippos, even unto death: And saith she gave it a reward of milk: and saith, that many times they drink of her milk bowl. And being asked how she came by the said spirits, she confessed and said, that one Mother Turner did send them unto her to her house (as she thinks) for that she had denied the said Mother Turner of milk: And when, and as often as they did drink of the milk: This Examynate saith they went into the said earthen pot, and lay in the wool.

The Examination and Confession of Anise Glascocke, wife of Iohn Glascocke, sawyer, taken before me Bryan Darcey Esquyre, the xxiiii. of February.
TThis Examinate being charged by Michel the shoemaker, that a women, stems fellow with her in the house, should report her to bee a naughty woman, and a dealer in witchcraft, denies that she knew any such woman, or that any such speeches were used unto her.

This Examinat being charged that one sparrow being lodged in her house, should hear a strange noise or rumbling since Christmas


last, saith, that she made a noise by removing of boards one night for that she would have him to lye in an other chamber.

This Examinate saith also, that long sithence she dwelt by the space of one quarter or more with her brother Edward Wood, and that at several times in that time certain leddē weights and great stones were cast into the house, and divers strange noises of rumblinges heard: the which weights & stones came always nearest one Arnoldes head, being then a boorder in that house, and saith that Arnoldes wife was accounted a witch: And was suspected to cause the same stones to be cast, to the intent to drive her husband from boarding there being in Jealousy of this Examinate: She being at that time not above the age of xx. years.

This Examinate saith, that by many years past she was much troubled with strange aches in her bones, and otherwise: whereof she consumed by the space of two or three years: And saith, yt she was told, that about Sudbery there dwelt one Herring (named to bee a Cawker) to whom she went, who declared to this Examinate, yt she was haūted with a witch (naming Arnolds wife) And that she should not escape death without she had some remedy, whereupon this examinat saith, yt she prayed ye said Herring to help her.


And that he then delivered unto her a little linen bag of the breadth of a groat, full of small things like seeds, and willed her to put the same where her payne was most, the which she proved by sewing it upon her garment, near the place where her grief was: And after a while this Examinate says, she recovered, and was well.

This Examinate denies that ever she hurt the base Child, which Pages his wife kept, or that there was any falling out between this Examinate and her: And says, that she knows not, whether the said Child bee a base Child or not.

This Examinate being charged, that she sent a spirit to plague Michell, the shoemakers Child, or that she had bewitched the said Child, denied that she had done either of both. And she being asked, whether she ever fell out with one Fortune or his wife, or whether she hurt any of their children, says, that there was no falling out between them, or that she hurt any of his Children.

Annys Letherdall and Margaret Simpson women appointed, to see and view the body of this Examinate: said, and affirm upon their credits, that upon the left side of the thigh of this Examinate, there be some spots,


and upon the left shoulder likewise one or two Which spots bee like the sucked spots, that Ursley Kemp hath upon her body.

This Examinate and the said Ursley Kemp alias Greye, being brought before me face to face, the said Ursley then charged this Examinate to have plagued and punished Mychelles Child, whereof it dyed: And also Fortunes wives Child, whereof it languished. At which speeches this Examinate used outrageous words, calling the said Ursley whore, saying, she would scratch her: for she was a Witch, and that she was sure she had bewitched her: For that she could not now weep.

The Confession and Examination of Ales Hunt, the Wife of William Hunt, taken before me Bryan Darcey Esquyre, the xxiiii. of February.
THe said Ales Hunt being asked, whether there was any falling out beetwene this Examinate, and Hayward of Frowycke, or his Wife: says, there was none: But rather she had cause to be beeholding unto them: saying, that Haywardes wife did christen her a Child. And she being charged to have a spirit


in a potsherd, which Ursleye Kemp had seen, denied that she had any such, or that she had plagued Haywardes Cattle with that or with any other spirit.

This Examinate being asked, if she never did feed her spirits with milk out of a little trenyng dish, said no: the which dyshe was brought by the Constable from her house, and then showed to this Examynate, the which she denied to bee her dyshe, or that she had any such in her house.

This Examinates warrant being made, and to her read, and she committed to the Constable to be carried to the Gaol, desired to speak alone with me the said Bryan Dar: whereupon I went into my Garden, and this Examinate followed me, she then falling upon her knees with weeping tears, confessed and said, that she had within vi. days before this examination, two spirits, like unto little Colts, the one black, and the other white: And saith she called them by the names of Jack and Robin: And that they told her, that the said Ursleye Kemp would bewray her this Examinate, and willed her therefore to shift for her self. And so they went from her, and sithence this Examinate saith she saw them not.


This Examinate saith, that her sister (named Margerie Sammon) hath also two spirits like Toads, the one called Tom, and the other Robin: And saith further, her said Sister and she had the said spirits of their Mother, Mother Barnes: who departed out of this world within xii. days before the taking of this examination.

The Examination and confession of Margery Sammon, taken before me Brian Darcie Esquire, the xxv. of February.
THe said Margerie Sammon, sister to the said Ales Hunt, daughter to one mother Barnes lately deceased, (which mother Barns was accounted to bee a notorious Witch) saith, that she remained at home with her mother by the space of half a year, and saith she was with her mother several times, when she lay sick, and also at the hour of her death: But denies the having of any spirits of her said Mother, or that her mother had any to her knowledge.

The said Margery yt night being cmitted to ye ward & keeping of ye constable, and the next day brought before me the said Bryan in the presence of her sister Ales Hunt, And being charged by her said Sister to have


two spirits like toads, given her by her mother at her death, utterly denied the same saying, I defy thee, though thou art my sister, saying she never saw any such: At which speeches her sister taking her aside by the arm, whispered her in the ear: And then presently after this Examinate with great submission and many tears, confessed that she had two spirits delivered her by her mother, the same day she departed. And that she this Examinate carried them away with her in the evening, they being in a wicker basket, more then half full of white and black wool: And that she asking her mother what she should doe with them, she bad her keep them and feed them: This Examinate asking wherewithal: her mother answered, if thou doest not give them milk, they will suck of thy blood: And says, she called them by the names of Tom and Robin. And this Examinate being asked how often she had given them meat sithence she had them, says and confesses, that she fed them twice out of a dyshe with milk: And being asked when she fed them last, this Examinate said, upon Tuesday last past before this examination, and that with milk.

This Examinate says also, that when she took them of her mother, she said unto her,


if thou wile not keep the said spirits, then send them to mother Pechey, for I know she is a Witch, and will bee glad of them. And saith further, that she hearing, that Ursleye Kemp was apprehended, and fearing that she should bee called in question, says thereupon she took the said spirits being in a basket, and in the evening went into the ground of her Master, and so into Reads ground, and bad them go to the said mother Pechey: At which words they skipped out of the said basket, and went before this Examinate, she this Examinate sayeing, all evil go with you, and the Lord in heaven bless me from ye: And says, she might see the said spirits going toward a barred style, going over into Howe lane: And when they came at the style, she says, they skipped over the same style and went the ready way to mother Pecheyes house: And says she verily thinks the said mother Pechey hath them.

The Examination and confession of Ioane Pechey widow, taken before me Brian Darcie Esquire, the xxv. of February.

This Examinate Ioan Pechey being asked how old she was, saith, she is threescore years and upwards: And saith that she hath dwelt in the Town of S. Oseys above xl. years: And saith she knew Mother Barnes, and she knew her to bee no witch, or that she ever heard her to bee accounted, or to have skill in any witchery. And she being asked whether she was with her when she lay upon her death bed, saith that she was not.

This Examinate also denies, that she hath or ever had any Puppets, Spirits or Maumettes: Or that she had any Spirits, which she bought, or were conueyed unto her by Margerie Barnes, or sent by any other sithence the death of Mother Barnes.

This Examinate also denies, that ever she said to any of her neighbours, or to any other person in secrete sort or merely, that she knew or could tell what any man in the Town at any time did or said, when she her self listed, or would know.

This Examinate saith, that she never used any of those speeches, which Ales Hunt hath informed against her, As yea art thou so saucy? art thou so bold? thou were not best to bee so bold, for if thou beist, thou shalt have Simonds sauce.


This examinate being asked, what she thought of the sudden death of Iohnson the Collector, saith, he was a very honest man, and dyed very suddenly: And saith she heard, that one Lurkin should say, that he heard Iohnson to say, that Mother Newman had beewitched him. And being asked of whom she heard it, she answered she could not tell: And saith that she her self never used any harde speeches against the said Iohnson.

This Examinate being charged to have willed her Son Phillip Barrenger, being of the age of xxiii. years to lye in head with her, denies that she had so done, other then she had willed him at some times to lye upon the bed at her back.

But the said Philippe being examined, confesses and saith, that many times and of late he hath lain in naked bed with his own mother, being willed and commanded so to doe of her.

This Examinate being asked, whether she had any Cat in her house, saith that she hath a Kyttyn, and a little Dog. And being asked, what colour the Kyttyn was of, she this Examinate said she could not tell, saying ye may go and see.


The Information of Iohn Sayer one of the Constables of Thorpe, taken before me Bryan Darcey Esquyre, one of her majesties Justices against Else Manfielde, the xiii. day of March.
THe said Iohn says, that above one year sithence he had a Thatcher, which was a thetching of a barn of his, near Mother Manfieldes house, and that then she the said Ales came unto the Thatcher, and would have had him to hetche over an oven of hers, whereunto this Thatcher made answer and said, he would doe it, if his master would let him, but else he would not doe it, whereunto she said, he had been as good as to have willed you to doe it. For I will bee even with him. And he says, that within a while after, he had occasion to come by the house of the said Ales Manfielde with his carte, well near three quarters laden, and being before her door upon the harde ground: says, his carte stood, that he could not make it go forward nor backward, by the space of one hour and more: The which he says, he thought to bee done by some wicherie, which the said Ales Manfielde then .


The Information of Robert Sanneuet, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, one of her M. Justices the xiiii. of March.
THe said Robert says, that about xv. years past, there dwelt with him the daughter of Elizabeth Ewstace, and that for some lewd dealings, and behaviour by her done, he says, he used some threatening speeches unto her, being his servant: And that shortly after she went home to her said mother, and telled her of her masters using of her: And the next day he says, as he was a sitting by his fire side, his mouth was drawn awry, well near up to the upper part of his cheek: whereupon he says, he sent presently to one of skill to come unto him, who came unto him, And that he seeing him in that case, took a linen cloth, and covered his eyes, and stroke him on the same side with a strong blow, and then his mouth came into the right course: and he says that he willed this Examinate to put away his servant, and that out of hand: the which he says he did.

This Examinat saith, that iii. years sithence his brother Cross was taken very sickly, and at times was without any remembrance, & that he sent for this Examinat, & when he came unto


him, he told him that Margaret Ewstace had bewitched him, and brought him into that weak state he then was at: Where this Examinate saith, that if that bee so, he then wished a spyt red hot and in her buttocks, which speeches of his, he saith was carried by one then in the house unto the said Mother Ewstace, and this Examinate saith, that she seeing a neighbour of his going towards this Examinates house, asked her whether she was going, and she answered unto this Examinates house: Whereunto she the said Mother Ewstace should say, nay go not thither, for he saith I am a witch: And said, his wife is with Child and lusty, but it will bee otherwise with her then he looks for: Whereupon this Examinate saith, that his wife had a most strange sickness, and was delivered of child, which within short time after dyed.

This Examinate saith, that the Summer after he milked vii. miche beasts, and that al that summer many and very often times, his said beasts did give down blood in steed of milk and that he had little, or no profit by them: And he saith that about iiii. months after many of his hogs did skip and leap about the pard in a strange sort: And some of them dyed.


The Information of Vrsley Kemp Alias Grey, taken at Colchester by Thomas Tey and Brian Darcey Esquires, two of her M. Justices the ix. of March.
THis Examinate being charged that she should report to several persons that have come unto her, sithence her imprisonment, that Ales Newman should send a spirit to plague the late Lord Darcey, whereof he dyed: And she being asked, whether she said so, saith she said, that Tyffyn her white spirit told her that Ales Newman had sent a spirit to plague a noble man, of whom we (meaning the poor) had all relief: The which she sAith she took to be the said Lord Darcey, And other wise she said not.

The Information of Richard Rosse of little Clapton, taken before me Bryan Darcey Esquyre, against Henry Cilles and Cysley his wife, the i. day of March.
THe said Richard saith, that about vi. years past, the said Henry Cilles wrought with this Examinate in husbandry many and several times, & saith yt at one time he the said Henry being at plough in ye said Richards ground with his plough of horses, they being as well and as likely to any mans judgment, as any men's


horse might be when they began to work: yet before they had gone twice or thrice about the land, two of his like horses fell down in most strange wise, and dyed.

This Examinate says, that a little before he had denied the said Cillys of two bushels of maulte, which she would have had for three shillings, but he held it at ten groats. And says further, that within a while after the said Cysleye Cyllis did come unto this examinates wife, bringing with her a poke, and desired to buy a bushel, or a bushel and a half of maulte of her, or as much as her bag would hold: But for that she the said Cysley would not give her her price, she departed without having any, using many harde speeches at that time: whereupon they fell out.

This Examinate says also, that his wife finding Cylles his cattle in his ground, did hunt thē out thereof, which Cylles his wife seeing, was thereat in a great anger, and gave her lewd speeches, & saith that presently after, many of his beast were in a most strange taking: the which he doth say, to be wrought by some witchcraft, or sorcery by ye said Hēry or Cisly his wife.

This Examinate says, that about xii. months & more past, a barn of his stding in his groūd, a good way of fr his dwelling house with


much corn therein, was in a most sudden sort fired and burnt: But (he says) he cannot charge the said Henry or Cysley his wife, to bee the doers thereof, other then the youngest son of the said Henrie and Cicely, should say here is a goodly deal of corn, and a man unknown should answer there was the devils store.

The information of Henrie Sellys, son of the said Henrie, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the said day and year.
THe said Henrie saith, that he is of the age of ix. years, and that sithence Candlemas last, one night about midnight, there came to his brother Iohn a spirit, and took him by the left leg, and also by the little Toe, which was like his sister, but that it was al black: at which time his brother cried out and said, Father, Father, come help me, there is a black thing yt hath me by ye leg, as big as my sister: whereat his father said to his mother, why thou whore cannot you keep your imps from my children whereat she presently called it away fr her son, saying, come away, come away, At which speech it did depart.

This examinat saith, that the next day he


told his mother he was so afraid of the thing that had his brother by the leg that he swett for fear, and that he could scarce get his shirt from his back: his mother answering thou lie, thou lie whoresonne. This Examinat being asked, wherewith he had seen his mother to feed her Imps and wherein, he saith, yt she fed them out of a black dish, each other day with milk: and saith, that he hath seen her to carry it unto a heap of wood and brom standing under a crab tree by the house, and being asked what their names were, he saith, that one of them is called by two names which is Herculus, sothe hons, or Jack, & that is a black one, & is a he, and the other is called Mercury, and is white, and is a she: and that their eyes bee like unto goose eyes, and saith, that he hath seen his mother to remove four Brom faggots, and so to creep into the crabtree root, whereas they stand and lye up a sleese of wool. And this Examinat saith further, yt the same night Rosse his maid was taken: when his father came home, his mother told him her husband, that she had sent Herculus to Rosse his maid: and he answered, ye are a trim fool. This examinat saith, that as he and his mother were coming (they being in Rosse his Bromefield) she said unto him, take heed ye say nothing.


The information of Iohn Sells the youngest son of Henry and Cysley, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the third day of March.
THe said Iohn Sells saith, that he is about the age of vi. years iii. quarters, & saith ye one night there was a black thing like his sister, that took him by the leg and that he cried out, saying, father, father, come help me and defend me, for there is a black thing that hath me by the leg: at which he saith, his father said to his mother, ye stinking whore what mean ye? can ye not keep your imps from my children? & being asked what colour they were of, & what they were called, he saith, that one is black, & another is white, & yt he hath hard his mother to call them Imps, & that they have eyes as big as himself: and he saith, yt his father bad his mother put them away or else kill them. And saith, yt a while sithence his mother delivered the to one of Colchester (he thinks his name is Wedon or Glascocke) and saith yt Weds wife had a cap to dress of his mothers, and saith, that they were carried away in a basket at that time. And being asked, whether his father or mother bade him that he should say nothing, he says, that his


mother said unto him that he should go before: a gentleman, and willed him to take heed he telled no tales nor lies.

He saith, that his father called one of them, which is the black one, Iohn, which he said his father mocked him because his name was so: And his mother called ye white one an Imp. He saith he hath seen his father to feed them out of a black dish with a wooden spoon, and yt he knows the same dish, & the last time he fed them it was behind the Bromestacke at ye crabtree. And he saith, that the man which carried them away gave his mother a penny, and that when she should go to him she should have another penny, he saith at that time his brother was from home at one Gardeners house.

And being asked, whether ever he saw his mother to feed them, he saith, that he hath seen his mother to feed them twice, and that out of a dish with a spoon with thin milk.

Note also, it is to be considered, that there is a scarre to bee seen of this examinats leg where it was taken, and also the nail of his little Toe is yet imperfect.

The information of Ioan Smith wife of Robert Smith, takē before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the said day and year.

THe said Ioan saith, that one holy day in the after noon sithence Michaelmas last, she had made her self ready to go to Church, and took in her arms her young child & opening her door, her mother (grandmother to the child) one redworths wife, and Sells his wife were at the said door ready to draw the latch, she this examinat telling her mother she was coming out of doors to Churchward: whereat the grand mother to the child, took it by the hand & shoke it, saying, a mother pugs art thou coming to Church? And Redworthes wife looking on it, said, here is a iolie & likely child God bless it? after which speeches, Sells his wife said, she hath never the more children for that, but a little babe to play wtall for a time. And she saith within short time after her said child sickened and died: But she saith yt her cscience will not serve her, to charge the said Cysley or her husband to be the causers of any such matter, but prays God to forgive them if they have dealt in any such sort. &c.

The examination and confession of Henrie Sells and Cysley his wife, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the first day of Marche.
THe said Henry saith, that he hath wrought in husbandry by some long time past with


Richard Rosse of little Clapton, and yt one time he being at plough, two of his horses upon a sudden fell down and were in most strange taking, but what the occasion should be thereof (he saith) he knew not. And saith, yt he doth not remēber yt he would have had any malt of the said Rosse at his price, or yt there was any falling out between thē: and denies yt his child cried out unto him, saying, father come help me, or that he called his wife stinking whore: and denies all the residue of the matters in general informed against him, &c.

Condemned.

The said Cysley his wife saith, that she doth not remēber yt Rosse his wife did at any time hunt her cattle being in her ground, or yt she used any hard speeches to his wife thereupon, or yt she fell out for yt she could not have any malt at her price: but she saith at one time she met Rosse his wife, & that there was some talk between them, the which she doth not remember more then that the said Rosses wife said, I shall see at your end what you are. And being asked if she knew not mother Tredsall, she saith she knew her, but she denies, yt she said if she were a witch, she learned the same of the said mother Tredsall: and denies that her child cried


out in the night to his father, and all the residue of ye matters ingeneral informed against her.

Ales Gilney, Ioan Smith, and Margaret Simson women of credit, appointed by me Brian Darcey, to view and see the body of the said Cysley, say, that she hath upon her body many spots very suspicious, and the said Margaret saith, that they bee much like the sucked spots, that she hath seen upon the body of Ursley Kemp and several other.

The information of Ales Baxster serut with Richard Rosse, taken by me Brian Darcey Esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of the peace, the xix. day of Marche.
THE said Ales saith, that about Hallamas last past about four of the clock in the after noon, she went a milking into her masters ground two closes of from the house, and that she had eight or niene beasts to milk, and saith yt after she had milked all but one, and as she was a milking of that one, before she had half done, the Cow start and stroke down her pail, and that she saw all the rest to make a staring and a looking about: And she


saith as she was a making an end of milking of that Cow, she felt a thing to prick her under the right side, as if she had been stricken with ones hand, and she saith that after, as she was going homewards with her milk near the style in the same close, there came a thing all white like a Cat, and stroke her at the hart, in such sort as she could not stand, go, nor speak, and so she remained until her said master & two of his workmen did carry her home in a chair: she saith, she saw the said thing to go into a bush by the style, & that she knew not her master when he came unto her.

Robert Smith saith, that about Hallamas last past he wrought with Richard Rosse, and that about v. a clock was called by the said Rosse to help him to fetch home his maid, & going then with him they found the said Ales his maid sitting leaning against the stile, & in yt case as she could not stand, go, nor speak, and yt he and one other with their masters help took her up and brought her home in a chair.

The information of Henrie Durrant, taken by men Brian Darcey Esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of peace, the 26. day of March, against Ales Hunt.
THe said Harry Durrat saith, yt about the second day of this present month, he went to Colchester


to appear before the Justices there to bee bound from killing of flesh, and after that he had so done he saith, that he went with several of his neighbours unto the Castle, to see the witches that were committed thither, at which time he saith, he talked with Ursley Kemp alias Gray, who then told him after some demands which he used unto her, that Ales Hunt and her mother (the widow Barnes) had bewitched his daughter, whereof she dyed, saying, that because they were denied of a piece of Pork at such time as they came for it, therefore they were offended with you: and says further, that he doth remember that they came unto him and would have had a piece of Pork, the which for that it was newly dressed, and somewhat what, he made them answer that he would not cut it out.

The information of Richard Rosse and others together, with the confession of Henrie Sells and Cicely his wife.
The examination and confession of Ales Manfield, taken at Thorpe, and brought before me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices, the xiii. day of Marche.


Condemned.

THe said Ales Manfielde says, that she is of the age of three score and three years or there abouts, and that about xii. years sithence one margaret Greuell came unto this examinat and said, that she should go out of her house yt she dwelt in unto another house in the town: And then telled her that she had four Imps or spirits the which she would not carry with her to that house, for fear they should be espied or seen, and prayed her this examinate that she would keep them, and also telled her what they would doe for her (saying she should have them upon condition that she the said Margaret might have them at her pleasure, otherwise she should not have them) and with what, and howe she should feed them, and at her desire and request she saith that she was contented to keep them: And thereupon she says it was concluded and agreed between her and this examinate, that she the said Margaret should have them as often and as many times as she would at her pleasure, and that then she received them.

This examinate being asked, what names they were called by, and of what likeness, says that one of thē was called Robin, an other Jack, the third William, the fourth Puppet alias Mamet,


& that two of them were hes and the other two were shees, & were like unto black Cats, and saith that she kept them in a box with woll therein: And yt they did stand up a shelf by her bed where she lay. This examinate saith also, yt ye said Margaret Gravel hath come unto her many & oftē times sithence ye said agreemēt between thē made, & according to ye said condition hath received of this examinat ye said imps or spirits: she this examinat being telled of her some times wherefore she would have thē, & that some times she knew by asking ye said imps or spirits where they had bin, & what they had done when they returned again unto her. And being asked how oftē & whē to her remēbrce, she this examinat saith, about 7. years since ye said mother Gravel came unto this examinate & told her ye Chestons wife & she were fallē out, & had chiddē very much: & that she gave her evil speeches, whereupon she requested to have ye spirit Robin to go to plague his beasts: & the set it, which said when it returned, yt Cheston being at plow & leaving work, yt it had plagued a bullock of his yt was well liking & lusty, whereof it should pine & die.

This examinate saith, that the said Margaret Greuell, well near two years after, sent her spirit Jack to go to plague Cheston, upon the great Toe unto the death.


This Examinate says, that when it returned it told her that it had plagued the said Cheston upon the Toe even unto death, and that it had sucked blood of the said Margrettes body, and that besides it had of her Beer and Bread for the labour: and saith, that she this examinate gave it Bear and Breed then also for telling of her.

This examinate saith also, that five years past or there abouts, her spirit Robin told her that Margaret Greuell had sent the said spirit unto her husband to plague him, where of he pined above half a year and more, having by that means many and several strange sores, and thereof died. And this Examinate saith that, that he would eat as much or more then two men would doe, and that it sucked blood upon the body of the said Margaret for the labour: she this examinate being asked upon what place, saith the said spirit did not tell her.

This examinat saith, that on a time she went unto the house of Ioan Cheston widow, and desired of her to give her some Curdes: but she says she gave her none, whereupon she saith, that she sent her Imp Puppet alias Mamet to plague her Beasts, where that would, and so it did: And that when the said Imp returned, it told this examinate that it had plagued


four of her Beasts with lameness, and that it did suck blood upon this Examinates body for a reward.

This examinate saith, that about two years past, one Iohn Sayer did fetch doung out of an Orchard, from a pits bank, near this examinates house, and did by reason thereof, gull a greene place before her door, whereupon she says, she sent her Imp called Puppet alias Mamet to stay the Carte being before the door, the which it did, and she says that she saw him and others to lift at the wheels, and to set his hauser rope, the which did little good, and that the same hauser rope and other of his horse harness burst a sunder, and she says, she gave her said Imp Beer for the labour.

This examinate says, that little before Michaelmas last, her said four Imps said unto her, saying, I pray you Dame give vs leave to go unto little Clapton to Celles, saying, they would burn Barnes, and also kill Cattle, and she saith, that after their return they told her that they had burnt a barn of Rosses with corn, and also told her that Celles his wife knew of it, and that all they four were fed at Cells house by her al ye time they were away fr this examinate, wc she says was about a seven-night: An• that Puppet sucked upon this examiaminates


left shoulder at their return unto her: And the rest had beer.

This examinate saith, that William, one of her Imps not above a seuēnight before her apprehension, told her that she should be called in question, and bad her shift for her self: saying, they would now depart from her and go unto saint Osees unto mother Gray, mother Torner, or mother Barnes two daughters, but to which of them it was that they would go she doth not now remēber: but they told her yt they to wh they wēt had hurt mē & womē to death, & several mēs cattle and other things.

This examinat saith, yt about a quarter of a year since, she wēt unto ye house of mother Ewstace to speak with her, at wc time she saith, she saw three imps wc she had stding in a yearthē pot in ye one side of her house next ye heath, & saith that one of thē was white, ye other gray, & the third black, & saith they were like cats. This examinat saith also, that her white spirit told her, yt mother Ewstace their dame, sent her imps to hurt a child, whereof it should pine and become lame, but whose child she remembers not.

Also this examinate saith, yt upon some conference between mother Ewstace & her, she this examinate told mother Ewstace, yt mother Greuel did plague her husbd, whereof he died, which


was done by her spirit Robin: & she saith that she also told mother Ewstace, yt mother Greuel sēt her spirit Jack to plague Chest to the death: but what answer she the said mother Ewstace then made, she now remembers not.

This examinate saith, that about a year since the said mother Gravel told her, that she had caused her imps to destroy several brewinges of beer, & batches of bread, being asked where, she saith a brewē at Reads, a brewē at Carters, and a brewē of three or four bushels of malt at Browses.

The said confession being made by the said Ales in manner and form aforesaid, I the said Brian in the presence of they cunstables & other the Townsmen of Thorpe, said as I had several times before unto the said Ales, what a danger it was, and howe highly she should offend God if she should charge any person with any thing untrue, and also telled her that her said confession should bee read again unto her, willing her that if she heard any thing read that she knew was not true, that she should speak, and it should be amended, the which being done, she said her confession was true, and the said Margaret and Elizabeth being then also called before me, she affirmed her confession to their faces.


The information of Thomas Death & Marie his daughter, taken by me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices, the xv. day of March.
THe said Thomas Death saith, that about two years sithence, there was a great falling out between this examinates wife and the said Cisly Celles, for that one George Battle having put a child of his to the nursing and keeping of the said Cicely, and after he taking the said child away from her, and put the same to this examinates wife to be nursed & kept, whereupon at the next meeting of the said wives, the said Celles his wife chid and railed at her, and said, thou shalt loose more by the having of it, then thou shalt have for the keeping of it, & within one month after (as he now remembers) he saith that a child of his, of the age of four years, being in good liking and well, went but out of the doors into the yard, who presently fell down dead, and after by help being brought to life, the said child was in a piteous case, and so died presently.

This examinate saith, that he had presently after several Swine the which did skip and leap about the yard, in a most strange sort, and then died. And he saith that over night he had


a Calfe which was very fat, and the next morning he found the same dead.

This examinate saith, that he having bin at sea and newly arrived at Ipeswitch, a messenger which was newly come from his wife, by chance met him, who told this examinate that his daughter Marie was taken very strangely, and lay in a most piteous case, saying he had brough• her water to carry unto a Physician to have his opinion thereof: Whereupon this examinate says, that he and the messenger went therewith unto one Berte dwelling in that Town, and showed him the same, he says, he asked him if that his daughter were not bewitched: But he said that he would not deal so far to tell him, whereupon he not satisfied to his mind, met after with an acquaintance of his, and asked him where he might go to a cunning man, telling him in what case his daughter lay in: who then sent him to a man whom he knew not, nor his name he now remembers not, with whom after he had conferred and showed his daughters said water: This examinate says, he told him if he had not come with some great haste to seek help he had come too late: And this examinate


says, that he told him that within two nights after the parties that had hurt his daughter should appear unto her, and remedy her: And he says, that he him self did not then come home, but went to sea: But he says he sent his messenger home with things that were to bee ministered unto his said daughter.

This examinate says, that when he came home, his wife told him that the next night after his daughter had received the things ministered unto her, that she heard a noise like a groaning, and that she did arise and went unto her daughter, and asked her howe she did: whereunto her daughter made answer and said, ah mother that you had come a little sooner, you should have seen Celles wife and Barkers wife here standing before me.

Marie Death, daughter of the said Thomas Death, says, that about two years sithence upon a Sunday, she was taken with an ache or numnes from her neck down her back all over: And she says, that after her mother had ministered things unto her sent from a Physician: The next night after she says


she heard a voice, saying unto her, look up, at which she says she lifted up her eyes, and then did see Celles wife and Barkers wife standing before her in the same apparel that they did usually wear. And she this examinat says, she thought they said unto her bee not afraid, and that they vanished away, as she thinks it was about midnight, And the next day after, this examinate says, she amended, and was in case to arise without help, where before two or three could scarce turn her in her bed as she lay.

The information of Ioan Cheston widow, Iohn Carter and other the inhabitants of the Town of Thorpe, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of the peace, the xiii. day of March against Ales Manfielde.
THe said Ioan says, that in summer last mother Manfielde came unto her house and requested her to give her Curdes, she saith that answer was made that there was none, and so she departed. And within a while after some of her cattle were taken lame & could not travel to gather their meat, so that her servants were cstrained to mow down grass for the by


the space of eight days, she says, that afterwards the said mother Manfielde came again unto her, and demanded Curdes, and she says, that she then felled the said mother Mande, that she had bewitched her Cattle, and that she then said unto her, that if her cattle did not amend and become well, she would burn her: whereupon she says, that her cattle did amend, and within a very short while after were as well as before.

Lyndes wife says, that the said Mother Manfielde came unto her, and asked her a mease of Milk, who answered that she had but a little, not so much as would suckle her calfe, whereat she departed: and she says, that that night her Calfe dyed, being very lusty, and xx. days old.

The information of Iohn Carter & others of Thorpe, taken by me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices, the xx. day of March, against Margaret Greuell.
Continued in prison.

THe said Iohn says, that on a time Margaret Greuell came unto this examinates


house, desiring her to have Godesgood, which was denied her, and says that within a few days after his folks went in hand with brewing: But of two brewinges after they could make no beer, but was fain to put the same to the swill Tobbe, which was half a Seam at a brewing, & saith, yt the third time they went to Brewing with the like quantity, and that his son being a tall and lusty man, of the age of xxxvi. years, was wished to take his Bow and an arrow, and to shoot to make his shaft or arrow to stick in the Brewing Fat, and that he shot twice and could not make the same to stick, but at the third time that he shot, he made the same to stick in the brewing Fat, and after he saith they could brew as well as before.

Nicholas Stricklande Butcher, says, that Margaret Greuell sent her son unto him for a Rack of Mutton, he having newly killed a Mutton, saying, the same was what and that he could not cut it out, and says, that he saw him come again in the after noon, and the Monday after his wife seething Milk for the breakfast of his woorkfolkes, the same stink and was bitter: And says within few days


after his wife went to chearne her Cream that she had gathered, and that she was from the morning until ten of the clock in the night  Chearning, and could have no butter: the which this examinate seeing, he says he caused his wife to power the said Cream into a Kettle, and to set it upon the fire, the which was done: And making a great fire under it, this examinate says, they could not make it to sees over: Then this Examinate says, that he seeeing it would not doe, he says he took the kettle off the fire, and powered the one half thereof into the fire, and the other half he let stand in the Kettle, the which he says stink in such exceeding sort, as they could not abide in the house. And this examinate says, that the second time that his wife went to to chearne her Cream, she continued a chearning and could have no butter, but that it was as the other, the which he says, his wife was constrained to put it into yewil Tub. And after yt this Examinate saith, that the head and master Cow of five beasts did also cast her Calfe, and presently after fell a hauleynge, the which he fearing that it would have dyed, saying, that he fed it and killed it.


The information of Felice Okay widow, taken by me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of the peace, the xx. day of March against Elizabeth Ewstace.
THe said Felice says, that she was the late wife of Thomas Cross, and that she on a time finding the geese of Elizabeth Ewstace in her ground, did drive them out, and that by mischance one of her geese was hurt: whereat the said Elizabeth tell out exceeding lye with this Examinate, and gave her harde speeches, saying, that thy husband shall not have his health, nor that which he hath shall not prosper so well as it hath done, and that she also said, thou haste not had so good luck with thy gooslings, but thou shalt have as bad: And she says, that never after that she could have any of them geese which she her self kept: and also the same night she says, that one of her Kine gave down loot in steed of milk, and after for the space of viii. days.

THis examinate saith, that her late husband T. Cross, was takē in a strge sort, & thereof


pined, and says, that on a time as her said husband was a walking in his ground, he was call amongst Bhes, and was in that case that he could neither see, hear, nor speak, and his face all to bee scratched: and she says, that he being in that strange case, when he came to his memory, he would always cry out upon the said Elizabeth even unto his dying day, and would say that sithence she the said Elizabeth had threatened him he was consumed, and that she had bewitched him.

The examination of Lawrance kemp taken before me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices, the xx. day of Marche, against Vrsley kemp.
THe said Lawrence says, that his late wife was taken in her back, and in the privy parts of her body, in a very extreme and most strange sort, and so continued about three quarters of a year, and then died and he says, that his said wife did tell him several times that Ursley kemp his sister, had forspoke her, and that she was the only cause of that her sickness.


This examinat saith, that his said wife did tell him that two years before she met the said Ursley his sister upon Eliots heath, & that she fell upon her, & then took up her clothes and did heat her upon the hippos, and otherwise in words did misuse her greatly.

This examinat saith, that when his wife lay a drawing home, and continued so a day and a night, all the parts of her body were cold like a dead creatures, and yet at her mouth did appear her breath to go and come: and that she so ctinued in that case, until the said Ursley came unto her without sending for, and then lifted up the clothes and took her by the arm, the which she had not so soon done, but presently after she gasped, and never after drew her breath and so dyed.

The examination and confession of Margaret Greuell, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, one of her Majesties justices of the peace, the 24, day of March.
Continued in prison.

THis examinat saith, that she is of the age of lv. years or there abouts, & being charged with the foresaid information and confession


made by the said Ales Manfield against her, seteth the same in general, and saith, that she her self hath lost several bruings, and bakings of bread, and also swine, but she never did complame thereof: saying, that she wished her ger were at a stay, and then she cared not whether she were hanged or burnt, or what did become of her.

This examinat being asked, what falling out was or hath been between Cheston & her, saith, on a time she went to the said Ioan Ceston to buy a pennyworth of Rye meal, but she would let her have none, and faith, she said that it was pity to doe her any good, saying, that she this examinat had told master Barnish yt shrifes dog did kill a Doe of his by the park pale, and saith, that there was none other falling out as she remembers.

This examinat being viewed and seen by women, say, that they cannot judge her to have any sucked spots upon her body.

This examinat and the said Ales Manfield being brought before Brian Darcey, the said Ales did affirm her confession made by her to her face to be true.


The Examination and cfession of Elizabeth Eustace, taken before me Brian Darcey Esquire, the xiiii. day of marche.
Continued in prison.

THe said Elizabeth Euutace saith, she is of the age of liii. years or thereabouts, and denies the information and confession made by the said Ales Manfield ingenerall: Or that ever she had any Imps or Mamettes saying, out upon her hath she told any thing of me? and she being asked, what conference had been between her the & said Ales Manfielde saith, that there was none to her remembrance, other then once she went unto her, and carried her ointment to anoint her lameness that she was troubled with, and that then there was no conference which she remēbreth.

The said Ales Manfielde in my presence did affirm her confession made against the said Elizabeth to and before her face to face.

The information of Iohn Wadde, Thomas Cartwrite, Richard Harrison with several others the parishioners of little Okeley, taken by me Brian Darcey Esquire one of her Majesties Justices the 16. day of march.

IOhn Wade saith, that about two month sothence Anise Heard said unto him, that she was presented into the spiritual Court for a witch, and prayed him to be a means to help her, that she might answer the same when the days were longer: whereunto he said, that he told her that the Register dwelt at Colchester, saying, it must be he that therein may pleasure thee: whereto she said, that she would go to Iohn Aldust of Ramsay to speak unto him, for that he goes to Colchester that he might speak to the officers for her, and so she departed: this examinat saith, that since that time he drove forty sheep and thirty lambs to a pasture yt he had at Tendering, being thereof well near fourscore Acres, the which he had spared by some long time, and knew the same to be a good sheep pasture, and saith, that after they had bin there viii. or ix. days, he went to see them (having nevertheless appointed one to look to them): And at his coming, he found one to bee dead, another to bee same, another to sit drowping, and a lamb in the same case by it, which all died, and he found one other with the neck awry, which is in that case to this day, and one other which was so weak that it could not arise, & this examinat saith, that sithence he with others that presented her, and sithence she the


said Anise talked with him, he hath had not so few as twenty sheep and lambs that have died, and e lame and like to die: & he saith, that he hath lost of his beasts & other cattle, which have dyed in a strange sort.

Thomas Cartwrite saith, that after a great wind & snow well near three years sithence, there was an arm or houghe of a tree of his that was blown down, whereof Anise Herd had removed a piece and laid the same over a wet or dirty place to go over, which being to this examinat unknown, he took the same & the rest and carried it home: the which the said Anise knowing, that he had carried the same away, she said, that the churl (meaning this examinat) to a neighbour of hers had carried away the piece of the bough that she had laid to go over, saying, that she would bee even with him for it. After which this Examinat saith, within three nights after, there then being a snow two of his beasts went from all the rest, where as they lay as he might well perceive by the snow, and the head Cow fell over a great bank into a ditch on the other side, and there lay with the neck double under her, and the head under the shoulder, but a live, and he saith, he gate it home by good help and laid it in his horn, and faith, that it lay fourteen days in a


growing and piteous sort, but of all that time would eat nothing: whereupon he saith he took an are & knocked it on the head. And also the other Cow that was with the said Cow being a caluing in a most strange sort died, the which this examinat faith, yt he verily thinks to be done by some witchery by the said Anise Herd.

Bennet Lane wife of William Lane, saith, yt when she was a widow, Anise Herd being at her house she gave her a pint of milk & also lent her a pish to bear it home, the which dish she set a fortnight or 3. weeks, & then ye girl of the said Anise Herds came to her house on a message & she asked the girl for the dish, & said though I gave thy mother milk to make her a posit I gave her not my dish, she this examinat being then a spinning: & so yt girl went home, & as it seemed told her mother, who by her sent her dish home to her yt which girl having done her arrand, & being but a while gone: she this examinat saith, she could no lger spin nor make a thread to hold, whereat she was so grieved yt she could not spin, she saith, she took her spindle and went to the grindstone therewith once or twice, & ground it as smooth as she could, thinking it might be by some ruggedness of ye spindle that did cause her thread to break, and so


when she had ground it as well as she could, she went again to work therewith, thinking that then it would have done, but it would not do no better then it did before: then she saith, yt she remembered her elf and took her spindle and put it into ye fire, & made it red hot, & then cooled it gain and went to work, and then it wrought as well as ever it did at any time before.

This examinat saith, that in other time the said Anise Herd owed her two pence, and the time came that she should pay the Lords rent, and she being a poor woman was constrained to ask her the two pence, and to borrow besides (as she said): whereto she the said Anise answered, that she had paid eight or nine shillings that work, and she had it not now: saying she should have it the next week, whereto she this Examinat said, you must needs help me with it now, for this day I must paye the Lords rent, then she said she must go borrow it, and so went and fetched it, saying, there is your money, whereunto she this examinat answered, and said, now I owe you a pint of milk, come for it when you will & you shall have it: the which she came for ye next day, & had it with ye better, this examinat saith, yt ye next day she would have fleet his milk bowl, but it wold not abide ye fleeting but would rope & role as it were


the white of an egg, also the milk being on the her it did not so soon seath but it would quail, burn by and stink, the which she said she thought might be lg of ye feeding of her beasts, or else that her vessels were not sweet, whereupon she saith, she scalded her vessels, and scoured them with salt, thinking that might help, but it was never the better but as before: then she saith, she was full of care, that she should loose both milk and cream, then she saith it came into her mind to approve another way, which was, she took a horse shu and made it red hot, and put it into the milk in the vessals, and so into her cream: and then she saith, she could seath her milk, fleet her cream, and make her butter in good sort as she had before.

Andrew West and Anne saith, that on a time the said Anise Herd came unto his house, saying, she had been at mill, and that she could get neither meal nor bread, at which her speeches he knowing her need, saith, he caused his wife to give her a piece of a lofe: and that thē he said unto her Anise, thou art ill thought of for witchcraft, the which she then utterly denied yt she could or did any such thing: whereunto he saith, his wife said wee have a sort of pigs I wot not what we shall doe with the,


saying, I would some body had one or two of them, to that the said Anise said, that if a poor body should have of them and bestow cost, & that then if they should die it would half undo thē, and said if her Landlord would give her leave to keep one, she thē wished that she would give her one of them, whereunto this examinat said, she should have one: But for that she came not for it, this examinat saith, that he did think that she cared not for it, and after a while one of her neighbours bought two of them, and within ii. or iii. days after the said Anise came for one: to whom this examined said, for yt they had not hard no more of her, that he thought she would have none, and told her that he had sold two of them, and so the said Anise departed and went home.

This examinat saith, yt his wife the next day sent unto the said Anise a pound of wool to be spun: and that she said to the boy that brought it, saying, can she not have her weeders to spin the same? and that she then said to ye boy, your Aunt might as well give me one of he• pigs, as to Penly. and this examinat saith, that within two hours after, one of the best pigs that he had fell upon a crying as they stood all together before the door in the yard, and the rest of the pigs wēt away from yt: at the length the pig that cried followed stackering as though it were lame in the hinder parts, and yt then he called his weeders


to see in what strange case the pig was in, and asked them what was best to doe therewith, to which some of them said, burn it, other said, cut of the ears & burn them, and so they did, & then the pig amended by & by. and within two days after this examinats wife met with the said Anise Herd, and she then burdened her with that she had said to her boy: To the which ye said Anise made answer, yt she did say so: and then this examinats wife told the said Anise in what case her pig was, saying, thou saidest the other day thou had no skill in witchery, his said wife then said, I will say thou hast an unhappy tongue. After which, this examinats wife could not brew to have any drink yt was good, so as she was full of care, saying, yt sometimes she put one thing into her brewing fat, sometimes an other thing to see if it could doe it any good, but she saith, it did none: then she saith one gave her counsel to put a hot iron into her mesh fat, the which she did, and then she could brew as well as she did before.

Edmond Osborne and Godlife his wife, said that a little before Christmas last past, he bought at Manitree malt, and brought it home, and said to his wife, good wife, let vs have good drink made of it. And the next day she went in hand to brew the same, and when she had meshed her first wort and did let it go, that did very


well: Then his said wife having occasion to send her lad to their ground, she bade the lad call at Anise Herds for iii. d. the which she owed her for a peck of Apples, and that the lad so did: And she answered him very short, and said, she had it not now, saying, she should have it as soon as ye Wool m came: and the lad came home, & told his dame what she had said. And at yt time, she this examinat was ready to meshe ye second time, & whē she had done, her mesh at wrought up as the fat doth when it was set a work with good beer, and bare up a hand breadth above ye fat, and as they thrust in a stick or any other thing, it would blow up and then sinked again, then she saith, yt she did heat an iron red hot, and put ye same into it, & it rose up no more. And then she let go, and then she did seath the wort, and when it was sodden it stink in such sort, as that they were compelled to put ye same in the swill tubbe.

Richard Harrison Clerk, person of Beamd saith, that he and his late wife did dwell at little Okely, in a house of his said wife, & that he the said Richard Harrison had also the personage of Okeley in farm, and about Summer was tweluemonth, he being at London his wife had a Duck sitting on certain eggs under a Cherry tree in a hedge, and when the said


Duck had hatched, his said wife did suspect one Anise Herd a light women, and a common harlot to have stolen her duckelins, & that his said wife went unto the said Anise Herd & rated her and all too chid her, but she could get no knowledge of her ducklins, and so came home & was very angry against the said Anise. & within a short time after, the said Richard Harrison went into a chamber, and there did read on his books for the space of 2. or 3. hours bidding his said wife to go to bed with the children, and yt he would come to her, and she so did: and being awhile laid down in her bed, his wife did cry out: Oh Lord Lord, help me & keep me, and he running to her, asked her what she ailed? and she said, Oh Lord I am sore afraid, and have bin divers times, but that I would not tell you, and said, I am in doubt husband, that yonder wicked harlot Anise Herd doth bewitch me, and ye said Richard, said to his wife, I pray you be content and think not so, but trust in God and put your trust in him only, and he will defend you from her, and from the Devil himself also: and said moreover, what will the people say, that I being a Preacher should have my wife so weak in faith.

This examinat saith, yt within two months after his said wife said unto him, I pray you as ever there was love between vs, (as I hope


there hath been for I have v. pretty children by you I thank God) seek some remedy for me against yonder wicked beast (meaning the said Anise Herd). And if you will not I will complain to my father, and I think he will see some remedy for me, for (said she) if I have no remedy, she will utterly consume me, whereup this examinat did exhort his said wife as he had before, & desired her to pray to God, and y• he wold hang her the said Anise Herd if he could prove any such matter. and after he went to the personage, and there he saith he gathered plummes: and the said Anise Herd then came to the hedge side and Anwicks wife with her, and said unto him, I pray you give me some plummes sir: and this examinat said unto her, I am glad you are here you vield strumpet, saying, I do think you have bewitched my wife, and as truly as God doth live, if I can perceive ye she be troubled any more as she hath been, I will not leave a whole bone about thee, & besides I will seek to have thee hanged: and saith, he said unto her that his wife would make her father privy unto it, and that then I warrant thee he will have you hanged, for he will make good friends, & is a stout man of himself. and saith, yt then he did rehearse divers things to her yt were thought she had bewitched, as Geese & Hogs, & as he was coming down out of the tree, she the said Anise

drink, she saith, sometimes water & sometimes beer, such drink as they drunk.

She this examinat saith, yt her brother sometimes seeing them the Auices and black birds, to come about him, saith, that he saith they keep a tuitling and tetling, and that then he takes them and put them into the boxes.

She being asked if she saw them suck upon her mother, saith, that the Auices & blackbirds have sucked upon her hands, and upon her brothers legs: being willed to show the place, she said, here sucked Aves, & here sucked Aves, and here sucked Blackbird. And being asked how one spot upon the back of her hand came so somewhat like the other, she saith the same was burnt.

The examination and confession of Anise Herd of little Okeley, taken by me Brian Darcey Esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of the peace, the xvii. day of March.
Continued in prison.

THe said Anise Herd saith, that she told one of her neighbours that the churl (meaning Cartwrite) had carried away a bough which she had laid over a slow in the high way, and said that she was fine to go up to the ankle every steppe, and that she said he had been as good he had not carried it away, for she would fetch as much wood out of his fields as that doth


come unto. And she saith also that she remēbreth she came unto goodman Wad, & telled him that she was presented into the spiritual court for a witch, & that thē she desired yt she might answer the same when the days were longer.

Also she confesses yt Lannes wife gave her a pint of milk & lēt her a dish to carry it home in, & that she kept the dish a fortnight or longer, & thē sent it home by her girl, & also that Lannes wife came to her for ii. d. which she ought her.

Also she confesses that she came to the house of her neighbour West, & telled him that she had bin at mill, but she could get no meal, nor yet no bread, & that he gave her a piece of a loaf: and she confesses the speeches that then were of the pigs: And that she said to ye by that brought woll, yt his Aunt might as well have let her have one as Penley. She saith also, yt she remēbreth yt she came to goodwife Osborne, & bought of her 3. peckes of apples, & confesses yt she ought unto her iii.d. but denies that the boy or lad came to her for any money.

Also she remēbreth that mistress Haris charged her to have stolen her ducklings, & that she called her harlot & witch, & confesses yt she came unto M. Harison, he being at ye parsonage a gathering of plūms, & that she prayed him to give her some plūms: But denies that she hath any imps Aueses or black birds, or any kine called

Crow or Donne: And all & every other thing in general, or that she is a witch or have any skill therein.

The information of Edward Vpcher, Thomas Rice, and several others of the inhabitants of Walton, taken by me Brian Darcey esquire, the xxv. day of Marche.
THe said Edward saith, yt he & wife being at Colchester, this last week, they wēt together unto the Gaol, to speak with Ursley Kemp, & then entering into talk with her, says, he asked her if she could tell what sickness or diseases his wife had, whereunto ye said Ursley thē told him, yt his wife was forspokē or bewitched, he thē asked her by whom, she told him it was by a woman yt dwelt in their town, saying, that ye party hath one of her ears less thē ye other, & hath also a moole under one of her arms, and hath also in her yard a great woodstacke.

Ales Miles saith, that she went to the house of Ioan Robinson for a pound of •open, at which time she the said Ioan was gone from home, And saith that her maid Ioan Hewet told her, that her Dame made her nose bleed, and thē called her Cat to eat ye same, saying she did marvel why her dame should call the Cat to eat her blood.

Thomas Rice saith, that about xiiii. days past,


Ioan Robinson came unto the house of this examinate, and desired to borrow a Hayer, the which his wife denied her, saying, that she was to use it her self, whereat she departed, and presently after there arose a great wind, which was like to have blown down their house. And the next day after one of his Kine could not calve without help, it being drawn from her, died, and the Cow was in danger and did hardly escape.

And says also, that his wife hath a brood Goose a sitting, that hath been as good for the bringing forth of her brood as any goose in Walton, and says, that sithence the said Ioan was denied of the hayer, the goose in the night will goefrom her nest, and will not suffer his wife nor none of his folk••o come near her, but she will fly away, so as she hath lost two of her eggs.

And says also, that he thinks the same to be done by the said Ioan by some witchcraft.

Margery Carter saith that about ten years past, the husband of the said Ioan came unto this Examinates house, and requested this Examinates husband to hire a pasture for a Cow, the which she says was denied him, with answer that he could not forbear it for fear he might want for his own beasts.


and that presently after two of his best & likliest beasts in a strge sort brake their necks. & saith also yt presēntly after this mischance Ioans husband came unto this examinats husbd W. Carter, & said, God restore you your loss, now you may pastor me a cow, the which then he did, and then his beasts left breaking of their necks. And saith also, yt about 2. years since, the said Ioans husband would have bought a house and an acre of ground of W. Carter her husband, the with he would not sell unto him, for yt he would not have him his neighbour. And ye next day he had a fair ambling mare, for ye which he might have had 5. li. often times: The with mare of her self came in to ye stable, & presētly was in a great sweat, & did hold her tongue out of her head, & shook & quaked in a strge sort, & presētly died, the with whē it was fleed, a neighbours dog came & fed of it, and thereof presently died.

Also she saith, not above 14. days past, the said Ioan Robinson came unto this examinate, & requested to borrow a Heyer, to wh she made answer yt she had vowed not to lend the same: And saith, that within 3. days after, she had one of her best beasts drowned in a ditch where there was but a little water.

Ales Walter saith, yt well ne'er 4 years past, the said Ioan came unto her, & requested to by a pig of her: where she saith she would lend her


one, but sell her any she would not: whereto the said Ioan said yt she would have none except she did bye it, & so they parted. And presētly after ye sow would not let her pigs suck, but did bite & fly at them, as though she had bin mad, when they had sucked above 7. days very well: & she saith yt she sold of the pigs, the which Ioan Robinson hearing, came unto her, and requested to by one of them, which she had for 3. d. and telled her that her sow did the like, & bad her give thē milk as it came fr the Cow and they would drink, which she approved, and they drank.

This examinate saith, that two years since, she going to the house of Ioan Robinson, found her and her husband sitting by the fire, with wh after she had talked, Ioan Robinson required to bye two pigs of her sow that then was to pige: whereto she said she would see first what she should have her self, and would not then promise her any. And the same night her Some piged two piges in the cote where she lay, and for the more safety of them, she took a broom faggot and laid it close ouerwharte the door, because the pigs should not come out, & saith the same night all the farey of pigs being ten, came out over the broom sheaf, and stood one before an other in a tract place leek horses in a teem, being al dead to the number of nine, & the tenth was drowned by the pond side being about a rod fr ye cote.


Allen Duck saith, that about five or six years past the said Ioan came unto this examinate, and requested to bye a Cheese of his wife, but she made her answer, that she could sell none, yet nevertheless she was very desirous to have one, the which she says, she denied her, and that she went away in a great anger. And this examinate says, that the next day he went with his Cart & four horses therein to fetch a lode of corn, & that his wife & two of her children rid in the Cart. And saith, that as he went towards the field he watered his horses at a ware called the Vicarage ware, which horses when they had drunk, he could not get them out of the water, but was fine to wade to the forhorse head, it being about a yard deep, and to take him by the head and to lead him out. This examinate saith, that the said Ioan came unto this examinates wife at two several times to by two pigs, whereof he saith she was denied, & presently after he had two pigs that died. And saith, that he assuredly thinks yt the said pigs died of some witchcraft which she the said Ioan used, and the like for the staying of his horses being in the water.

Iohn Brasyer saith, yt about two years since the said Ioan Robinson came unto this examinates house, and requested to by a sowpigge to wean, the which was a month old, whereunto he told


her he meant to wean it him self, and that he would not let her have it, the which being a fat and a well liking pig above all the rest, the next day died.

Also this examinate saith, yt sithence Christmas last past, this examinates wife went unto the said Ioan Robinson, to pay her money she ought unto her for wares which she had being due upon scores: And for that she his wife would not pay her her own reckoning, she fell out with his wife: And presenely after he had a cow that was drowned in a ditch not a foot deep with water: Al which he supposes was done by some witchcraft by the said Ioan.

The information and confession of Ioan Robinson, taken by me Brian Darcey esquire, one of her Majesties Justices of peace, the xxv. day of March.
THe said Ioan saith, she went to the house of T. Rice to borrow a Heyer two days before a flaw of wind which was denied her: but denies that she hath any imps or caused his calfe to die, or that she hurt her brood goose. Also she reēmbreth that her husbd wēt to W. carter to by a house & an acre of groūd, & to hire a cow pastor, & to borrow a Hayer of goodwife Carter. But denies yt she sēt any imps to hurt any of his beasts, or his ambling mare, or caused any cow of his to be drowned.


Also this examinate saith, that she went to bye a pig of Ales Walter, but denies that she required to bye any that was not pigged of her or of any other at any time, & denies that she sent any Imps or spirits to kill any of her pigs, and all the other matters against her informed she denies in general.

Imprinted in London at the tree Cranes in the Vinetree, by Thomas Dawson. 1582.




The names of xiii. Witches, and those that have been bewitched by them.
 The Names of those persons that have been bewitched and thereof have dyed, and by whom, and of them that have received bodyly harm &c. As appears upon sundry Information, Examinacions and Confessions, taken by the worshipful Bryan Darcey Esquire: And by him certified at large unto the Queens Majesties Justices, of Assise of the County of Essex, the xxix. of Marche. 1582.
S. Osythes.	1	The Witches. Ursley Kemp alias Grey	bewitched to death	Kempes Wife. Thorlowes Child. Strattons wife.	 
 	2	Ales Newman and Ursley Kemp	bewitched to death	Lethdalles Child and Strattons wife.	 
Confessed by Ursley and Elizabeth.	 	The said Ales and Ursley Kemp	bewitched	Strattons Child, Grace Thorlowe,	whereof they did languish
 	3	Elizabeth Bennet	bewitched to death	William Byet and Ioan his wife, and iii. of his beasts. The Wife of William Wills and William Willing.
 	 	Elizabeth Bennet	bewitched	William By•ners Wife, Iohn Butler, Fortunes Child, whereof they did lang.
 	 	Ales Newman	bewitched to death	Iohn Iohnson and his Wife, and her own husband, as it is thought.
Confessed the Cattle.	4	Ales Hunt	bewitched to death	Rebecca Durant, and vi beasts of one Haywades.
 	5	Cyssey Celles	bewitched to death	Thomas Deaths Child.
Little Clapton.	 	Cyssey Celles	bewitched	Rosses maid, Mary Death Whereof they did languish
Thorpe.	6	Cysley Celles and Ales Manfielde	bewitched Richard Rosses horse and beasts, and caused their Imps to burn a barn with much corn.
Confessed by Ales Manfield	7	Ales Manfielde and Margaret Greuell.	bewitched to death	Robert Cheston and Greuell husband to Margaret.
 	 	Ales Manfield and Margaret Greuell	bewitched the widow Cheston and her husband v. beasts, and one bullock, and several brewinges of beer, and batches of bread.
Thorpe.	8	Elizabeth stae	bewitched to death	Robert Stannuettes Child and Thomas Gross.
 	 	Elizabeth Ewstace	bewitched Robert Sanneuet vii. milth beasts, which gave blood in steed of milk, and several of his Swine dyes.
Little Okley.	9	Annys Herd	bewitched to death	Richard Harrison wife, and two wives of William Dowsing, as it is supposed.
 	 	Annys Herd	bewitched Cartwright two beasts, wide, sheep and lambs x. West, swine and pigs, Othorne a brewing of beer, and several other losses of milk and crime.
Walton.	10	Ioan Robinson	bewitched beasts, horses, swine and pigs of several men's.
The said Ursley Kemp had four syrites viz. their names Tatty a he like a gray Cat, Jack a he like a black Cat: Pie a he, like a back road, & Tyffyn a she, like a white Lamb. The hes were to plague to death, & the shees to punish with bodily harm, & to destroy 

Tyffyn Ursleys white spirit did tell her always (when she asked) what the other witches had done: And by her the most part were appel¦led, which spirit telled her always true. As is well approved by the other Witches confession.

The said Ales Newman had to said Ursley Kemp spirits to use at her pleasure.

Elizabeth Bennet had two spirits, viz. their names Suckyn, a he like a black Dog And Lya.

Ales Hunt had two spirits like Colts, the one black, the other white.

1 Margery Sammon had two spirits like Toads, their names Tom and Robin.

Cyy Celles had two spirits by several names viz. Sotheas Herculus, Jack of Mercury.

Ales Manfield and Margaret Greuell had in common by agreement iiii spirits, viz. their names , whereof two were hes, and two shees, like unto black Cats.

Elizabeth Ewstace had iii. Imps or spirits, of colour white, grey and black.

Anise Herd had vi. Imps or spirits like aises and black birds, And vi. otherike in, nises she fed with wheat, barley, Otes and bread, the ie with strew and hey.

Amiss Glascocke
12 Ioan Pechey
13 Ioan Robinson
These have not confessed any thing touching
Anais Glascoke bewitched to death

Mychell Seens Child.
The 〈◊〉 Child at Pages.
William Paes Child.