The several practises of Iohane Harrison, and her daughter, condemned and executed at Hartford for Witch-craft, the 4 of August last, 1606.
AT the Assizes held in the beginning of August last in the County of Hartford, in the Kings Majesties behalf for Gaol delivery, there were by the verdict of the Country, Four only Offenders found worthy to have deserved death, of which 2 (as have béen spoken of, the Mother & the Son) for murder, and one Iohane Harrison, & her daughter for damnable Witch-craft, wrayed time that offences should come thus prodigious, that the Of-spring borne to be a comfort to the Parents, and the parents as much to be delighted in the Children, should be cause of one another untimely death and fatal overthrow.

This I. H. dwelling at Royston in the said County of Hartford, of long time having béen suspected for witchcraft; now (upon just cause) was apprehended, and her house according to the true course of Justice, being searched, there was found in a chest of hers, such sufficient instruments, (which she after confessed were helps to her in her practises) that could there have been no other proof nor evidence against her, they only had béen sufficient to judge her unworthy of long life. This Chest being opened, there was first taken out by the Officers all the bones due to the Anatomy of man & woman, and under them hair of all colours that is customarily worn; in the bottom was found a parchment lapped up in a compass no bigger than a great, but being open, was in breadth every way 2 spans; in ye midst of this

parchment was coloured (in the purest colours) a heart proportionable to the hart of a man; and round about fitting even to the very brim of the parchment, were coloured in several colours very curiously divided branches, on which hung dangling things like ashen keys, and at the ends of them in some places figured, and others proportioned a mouth, in brief the whole joints and artiers of a man.
This I.H. being upon her examination, and finding such apparent witness induct against her of her several felonies & murders, neglected not to confess her utmost secret therein, that she had power (by the help of that parchment, man & women's bones, and man and women's hair) to inflict (by the help of her spirits, which she reported to have 2 attending on her, one for men, another for cattle) in any joint, since now, or place of the body, by only but pricking the point of a néedle in that place of the parchmēt, where in his or her body she would have them tortured, which torture of hers once begun in them, their pain should continue so restless, that a present death had bin more happier, than so lingering a calamity; and those whom she intended to kill had the same in effect. If she gave a prick in the middle of ye parchment, where she had placed the heart, which relation of her may certainly be beléeued by the several consequents that she was condemned upon. First a good country Yeoman (a neighbor of hers) & she falling at some words together, he calling her old Hag, or some such like name of reproof: She made him this answer, I will say little to thée, but thou shalt féele more from me hereafter. The honest man had scarce béen departed from her half an hour, but hée felt himself, as if he had béen set into your scotch-boote, or spanish strappado, or your Morbus Gallicus, was nothing to it, sometimes in a pestiferous heat, at others, a chill cold, but at al times in continual aches, & wrecking of his limbs as if the Devil had set him on his Tentors to make broadcloth of him. In this perplexity he continued consuming himself, not being able neither to go nor stand, nor Physic could help him, nor no means bee had to ease him.

When one of his neighbours coming in neighborly love to visit him, he began to open his mind to him, that he persuaded himself, by such a one she was bewitched, and hée was as faithfully persuaded, that if he could but have 2 or 3 good scratches at her face, whereby he might draw blood of her, he should recover presently, his neighbour advised him by some wile to send for her home, yet (yt betwéen them both held vnconuenient, for that either suspecting her self, or for not being friends she would not come) that in the night following his neighbor would have this sick man carried in a chair, & lodged in his house, and in the morning his wife, (who he knew she was good friends withal) should by some wile or another draw her theher, when if he of himself were not strōg enough to scratch her, he (as he held charily) wold help him. This the next morning was done accordingly, the Witch comes, & is well scratched, upon which within 3 or 4 days (as fast as the man could recover strength) he is up, & goes abroad; which this A.H. perceiving, arrests him & by a trial in law for this battery had 5  damages, and her costs of suit given her, the man (according as he was condemned) paid her, which no sooner by her received, but ye honest man fell into his former passion, languishing a while & died: in the same manner she served another, who méeting her out of the town in a lane, took the like revenge upon her, & recovered. Both which blown over (only a little murmurd against by a neighbor of hers) a young woman being washing clothes in an outer room next ye street where in a wanscot cradle her child lay a kéep; when this A.H. daughter chanced to come by just in the instant as she was throwing out a little wrinsing water, and by chance some of which unawares sprinkled upon her, which ye wench séeming moved at, called to her with these words. Do you throw your water upon me gossip, before it be long Isle be revenged for it. The woman (sorry for the offence) had done, followed her business, & thought no further of it, whē on the suddē (while she was stepped but into a next room to hāg up some clothes) the cradle wherein her child lay, was thrown over shattered


all to pieces, the child upon the face whelmed under it, & killed. Thus we see the Devil hath such power on these his damnable servants, that neither men nor infants are to be pitied by them. Not long after she had all bewitched a wealthy mans daughter in the town, who having a good substantial Yeoman to her brother, in pity of his Sisters grief, rode to Cambridge, and there acquainting a friend of his with his sisters affliction: the scholar told him she was bewitched, yet in regard they two had been of an ancient friendship, & that himself had some acquaintance with his sister, in spite of her Iucubi, her spirits, & the devil, & al heed help: which according to promise he performed, and by that time her brother was returned, his sister was recovered, in revenge of (for that her sorcery was crossed, & the maid reduced to health by her brothers carefulness) she caused such a plague upon all his cattle, that they all immediately perished, & consumed, not one of that great store he had being left, to be a remembrance of the rest: himself shortly after did these, & a number more at her trial were inferred against, only one more amongst the rest, though but a homely tale, for that it made al the Bench to laugh, Isle record of her, & conclude.

How the Witch served a Fellow in an Alehouse.
THere was an honest Fellow, and as boon a companion dwelling in Royston, one that loved the pot with the long neck almost as well as his prayers; for (quoth he) as I know one is medicinable for the soul, I am sure the other's physic for ye body. It was this Fuddle caps chance with 3 or 4 as good Malt-wormes as himself, and as sure, where the best lap was to be found, together as 4 Knaves in a pair of cards, to be drinking, where this Witch came in, & stood gloting upon them. Now this Good-fellow (not enduring to look upon a bad face, but his own, especially when he is Cup-shot) called aloud to her, Doe you hear Witch, look tother ways, I cānot abide a nose of that fashion, or else turn your face ye wrong side outward, it may look like raw flesh for flies to blow maggots in. Still as the

Witch was ready to reply, he would cross her with one scurvy Jest, & betwéen every Jest drink to her, yet swear, God dam him, she should starve ere she should have a drop on it, since the pot was swéet hée'd kéepe it so, for should but her lips once look into the lid on it, her breath's so strong, & would so stick in the cup, that al the water yt runs by Ware would not wash it out again. At last the witch got so much time to cal to him, Doest thou hear good friend (quoth she?) What say thou ill face (quoth he?) Mary I say (quoth she) that thou throwst in thy drink apace, but shall not find it so easy coming out. Nay, as for the coming out (answered the fellow) I throwd it in above, & it shall come out beneath, & then thou shalt have some of it, if thou wilt, because I am in hope it will poison thée. Then with this gréeting away goes the Witch in a chafe, & the fellow sits down to follow his drink, but as the end of all drunkards, is either to ming or to sléepe. So out goes this fellow, & drawing his Gentleman Usher against a pale side, finds me a top of his nose a red lump as big as a cherry, & in his belly felt such a rumbling, as if the Tower of Babel had fallen about his ears: oh the sight thereof drove his hart to an ague, & his tongue to an alarm and out he cries, the Witch, the Witch, I am undone, I am undone: O God, women of Royston, help, help, the Witch, the Wicth, I am a man spoiled, help, I am undone. At that word help, the Which, in comes one of his fellows runs in hast, & asked him what they should help, the Witch? Oh (quoth he) to the gallows, for I am undone by her. Well, yet out he runs, where for that night she would not be found, but the next morning méeting her in a lane, his pain rather increased, thā lesned, & there fasts his ten cōmandements upon her, he almost scratched out her eyes; nay, left her not till he brought her to ye town, where for this and the rest, she was apprehended, and she and her daughter, with George Dell and his Mother, worthily suffered death the 4 of August.