A true and exact RELATION Of the several Information, Examinations, and Confessions of the late Witches, arraigned and exe∣cuted in the County of Essex.

Who were arraigned and condemn∣ned at the late Sessions, holden at Chelmesford before the Right Honourable ROBERT, Earl of Warwick, and several of his Ma∣jesties Justices of Peace, the 29 of July, 1645.

Wherein the several murders, and devilish Witchcrafts, committed on the bodies of men, women, and children, and divers cattle, are fully discovered.

Published by Authority.

LONDON, Printed by M. S. for Henry Overtone, and Benjamin. Allen, and are to be sold at their Shops in Popes-head Alley. 1645.

THE PREFACE.
INGENUOUS READER;
THou hast here presented to thee a sad Emblem of the strange sleights and cunning subtleties, whereby Satan la∣bours daily to ensnare souls, and at last to bring them to utter ruin; who being that grand impostor, soon began this work, even in the morning of the Creation, in the body of a Serpent miraculously, to reason, dispute, speak, and confer with Eve; and never ceased till he had laid the honour of those glorious creatures in the dust: and therefore is called that old Serpent, that decay∣veth all the world, by whose deceitful promises and subtle devices (for his own end, and desire of their destruction,) hath ensnared and drawn these poor silly creatures, into these horrid and detestable practises, of renouncing God and Christ, and entering into a solemn league and contract with the Devil [a]; the thought whereof is sufficient to cause a man to be filled with horror and astonishment. The Law and ex∣press command of God doth allow of no familiarity or in∣quiry of any other spirit, but from himself; as Isa. 8.19. And when they shall say unto you, seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto Wizards, that peep and that mutter, should not a people seek unto their God, &c. Under this interrogative is understood this af∣firmative,

A people should inquire of no other spirit, but of their God only. By which also it is evident, that all spirits that doe suffer themselves to be inquired at, are evil spirits, and therefore [b] Devils. And though these devilish pra∣ctises were frequent and common amongst heathens and in∣fidells, who usually held familiarity with these spirits, and many inquired of them in their Oracles; and therefore cal∣led those spirits that gave answer by them, Daemons [c] of their skill and knowledge in foretelling things to come: yet now when the light of the Gospel shines so gloriously, that such a generation of poor deluded souls (and to such a number∣ber as hath of late been discovered) should be found amongst us, is much more matter of admiration and astonishment [d]. I doubt not but these things may seem as incredible unto some, as they are matter of admiration unto others. Nolle nimis sapere, saith the Poet, It is true wisdom not to be too wise; that is, not to know nor desire to know more then is al∣lowed or needful; needful not in our desires, but in Gods decree: Here then let reasonable men be persuaded not too much (as is usual) to swell with indignation, or to be puf∣fed with impatience, where God doth not overtly reveal and plainly (as they desire and think needful) the subtle Engines and mystical craft of the Devil in the machine∣tions of Witches and Sorcerers; but soberly, modestly, and discreetly, so far forth-be contented to pursue the trial and just way of their discovery, as with sense, with reason, with Religion, is just and righteous; knowing, that what∣soever is beyond these lists, is reasonless, senseless and imp∣os. The greatest doubt and question will be, whether it be in the power of the Devil to perform such asportation and local translation of the bodies of Witches; it seems in reason a thing whereunto the Devil is unable: And when∣there these supernatural works, which are above the power of


man to do, and proper only to Spirits, whether they are real, or only imaginary and fained. In answer to which, it is ve∣rye probable that the Devil hath power to dispose and trance∣port the bodies of men and women, where God himself doth not countermand or prohibit: as instance, when he took the body of our Saviour and set it upon a pinnacle of the Temple; and these supernatural acts may appear to the outward sense, as Histories; and many other true reports and Records of other wonderful works and supernatural feats, all alike of∣feared to the outward sense. It is true, that a Spirit, and a spiritual work simply in it self, in the own nature and substance cannot be seen by any bodily eye, or be deprehended by any outward sense, notwithstanding, as they do mix them∣selves with bodily substances, are certainly tried and subject to the sense: For illustration hereof, instance may be given in holy Scripture, as the Sorcerers of Egypt, where water was turned into blood, the rod into a Serpent, &c. By a spy∣ritual power their eyes did manisestly see the water, and as apparently after see the blood, and the rod turned into a Serpent, the eye being a true and undeceived witness of both: Things imagined and fancied, are easily discerned from those things that are real and true objects. But it may be demanded, whether a Spirit or Devil can cause such a transmutation of the bodies of Witches into those several shapes and forms of Cats, Dogs, Birds, and other creatures, as is often reported, where Witches and Sorcerers have lived. The answer is, that it is impose∣sible in nature, and in the ordinary unchangeable course of all things created by God, that one individual and conti∣nued substance or entire thing should be wholly divided from it self, and yet be it self; [e] for there can be no real or true transmutation of one substance, or nature into another, but either by creation or generation. Now creation is the


work of in infinite power, and therefore of God alone. The Devil then cannot create, neither can he do it by any course of true generation, [f] because a true and real generation hath many precedent alterations, and by little and little, in space of time [g] grows unto the perjection of that kind unto which it doth tend, or is begotten; therefore they are but seeming and juggling transmutations of the Devil: And here that saying of Augustine may be alleged, De civit. Dei, lib. 18. cap. 18. (Nec sane Daemones natu∣ras creant, sed specie tenus, quae à Deo creata sunt commutant, ut videantur esse quae non sunt) that is, Devils cannot create any nature or substance, but in jug∣gling show, or seemingly only, whereby with false shadows covering those things which are created of God to cause them to seem that which they are not indeed. Take one in∣stance of the juggling and illusions of the Devil above all the rest, which doth most palpably detect him herein, is a History related by Johannes Baptist Port, in his se∣cond book, de Magia natural; he there witnesses, that upon the Devils suggestion, a Witch believed firmly and persuaded her self, that all the night she had rid in the air, over divers great mountains, and met in convene∣ticles with other Witches, when the same night, the men∣tioned Author himself, with others that watched her and saw her all that imagined time of her transvection in the air, to be within her chamber profoundly sleeping; yea, had smitten her, made her flesh blew with strokes, and could not awake her, nor persuade her afterword when she was awa∣ked that they had so used her, or at all had seen or be∣held her; thus prevalent was the juggling power of the Devil.
Many other like instances of like nature might be added, only what here is published and communicated unto the

world, may sufficiently discover those strong delusions which these poor souls were given up unto, who now according to their demerits, and according to the Laws of God and this kingdom established, have received their just reward.
H. F.

THE INFORMATION of John Rivet of Mannintree, Tay∣ler, taken before Sir Harbottell Grimston, Knight and Baronet, one of the Members of the Honourable House of Commons:

And Sir Thomas Bows, Knight, another of his Majesties Justices of Peace for this County, the 21th of March. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That about Christmas last, his wife was taken sick, and lame, with such violent fits, that this Informant verily conceived her sickness was some∣thing more then merely natural: Where∣upon this Informant about a fortnight since went to a Cunning Woman, the wife of one Hovye at Hadleigh in Suffolk, who told this Informant, that his wife was cursed by two women who were near neighbours to this Informant, the one dwelling a little above his house, and the other beneath his house, this Informants house standing on the side of an Hill: Whereupon he believed his said wife was bewitched by one Elizabeth Clarke, alias Bedingfield, that dwelt above this Informants house, for that the said Eliza∣beths mother and some other of her kinsfolk did suffer death for Witchcraft and murder.


The Information of Matthew Honkins, of Mannintree, Gent. taken upon Oath before us the 25th day of March. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That the said Elizabeth Clarke (suspected for a Witch as aforesaid) being by the appointment of the said Justices watched certain nights, for the better discovery of her wicked Practises, this Informant came into the room where the said Elizabeth was watched; as aforesaid, the last night, being the 24th of this instant March, but intended not to have stayed long there. But the said Elizabeth forth with told this Informant and one Master Sterne there present, if they would stay and do the said Elizabeth no hurt, she would call one of her white Imps, and play with it in her lap; but this Informant told her, they would not allow of it; And that staying there a while longer, the said Elizabeth confessed she had had carnal copulation with the Devil six or seven years; and that he would appear to her three or four times in a week at her bed side, and go to bed to her, and lye with her half a night together in the shape of a proper Gen∣tleman, with a laced band, having the whole proportion of a man, and would say to her, Bess Imust lye with you, and she did never deny him: And within a quarter of an hour after there appeared an Imp like to a Dog, which was white, with some sandy spots, and seemed to be very fat and plump; with very short legs, who forthwith vanished away: And the said Elizabeth said the name of that Imp was, Jarmara: And immediately there appeared ano∣there Imp, which she called Vinegar Tom, in the shape of a Grey∣hound with long legs: And the said Elizabeth then said that the next Imp should be a black Imp, and should come for the said Master Sterne, which appeared, but presently vanished: And the last that appeared was in the shape of a Polecat, but the head some∣what bigger. And the said Elizabeth then told this Informant that she had five Imps of her own, and two of the Imps of the old Beldam West (meaning one Anne West, widow) who is now al∣so suspected to be guilty of Witchcraft: And said sometimes the Imps of the old Beldam sucked on the said Elizabeth, and some∣times her Imps sucked on the old Beldam West. And the said Elizabeth further told this Informant, that Satan would never let

her rest, or be quiet, until she did consent to the killing of the Hogs of one Mr Edwards of Mannintree aforesaid, and the Horse of one Robert Tailor of the same Town: And this Informant fur∣there saith, That going from the House of the said Mr Edwards to his own House about nine or ten of the Clock that night, with his Greyhound with him, he saw the Greyhound suddenly give a jump, and ran as she had been in a full course after an Hare; And that when this Informant made haste to see what his Grey∣hound so eagerly pursued; He espied a white thing about the big∣ness of a Kitlyn, and the Greyhound standing aloose from it; and that by and by the said white Imp or Kitlyn danced about the said Greyhound, and by all likelihood bit off a piece of the flesh of the shoulder of the Greyhound; for the Greyhound came shrieking and crying to this Informant with a piece of flesh torn from her shoulder. And this Informant further saith, That com∣ming into his own Yard that night, he espied a black thing, pro∣portioned like a Cat, only it was thrice as big, sitting on a straw∣berry-bed, and fixing the eyes on this Informant; and when he went towards it, it leaped over the pale towards this Informant, as he thought, but ran quite through the Yard, with his Grey∣hound after it to a great Gate, which was underset with a pair of Tumbrel Strings, and did throw the said Gate wide open, and then vanished; And the said Greyhound returned again to this Informant, shaking and trembling exceedingly.

The Information of John Sterne, Gent. taken upon Oath before us the 25th day of March. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That watching with Elizabeth Clarke, (suspected for Witchcraft, as aforesaid) she confessed that the Devil had had carnal copulation with her in the likeness of a man; and that the said Elizabeth desired this Informant, and the rest that were in the room with her to sit down, and said, she would show this Informant and the rest some of her Imps: And within half an hour there appeared a white thing in the likeness of a Cat, but not altogether so big: And being asked if she would not be afraid of her Imps; the said Elizabeth answered; What

doe ye think I am afraid of my children? And that she called the name of that white Imp, Hoult. And this Informant further saith, That presently after there appeared another white Imp, with red spots, as big as a small dog, which she then called Jarmara: And that immediately after, there appeared at the threshold of the door another Imp about the bigness of the first, but did present∣lie vanish away. And then the said Elizabeth being asked if any more Imps would come; she answered, That Vinegar Tom would come by and by. And forthwith there appeared another in the like∣ness of a dumb Dog, somewhat bigger then any of the former: And the said Elizabeth also told this Informant, That she had three Imps from her mother, which were of a browne colour, and two from the old Beldam West: And that there had five Imps appeared; But she had one more called Sack and Sugar, which had been hard at work, and it would be long before it came, but it should tear this Informant. And a while after the said Elizabeth said, That it was well for this Informant he was so quick, otherwise the said Imp had soon skipped upon his face, and perchance had got into his throat, and then there would have been a feast of Toads in this Informants belly. And the said Elizabeth further confessed to this Informant, that she had one Imp for which she would fight up to the knees in blood, before she would lose it. And that her Imps did commonly suck on the old Beldam West; and that the said old Beldams Imps, did suck on her the said Elizabeth likewise.

The Information of Frances Milles, Grace Norman, Mary Phillips, and Mary Parsley, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 25th of March. An. Doom. 1645.
THese Informants say jointly, That watching with the said Elizabeth Clarke, suspected as aforesaid, about twelve of the Clock last night, the said Elizabeth smacked with her mouth, and beckoned with her hand, and instantly there appeared a white thing about the bigness of a Cat; and that these Informants saw five Imps more, which the said Elizabeth named as aforesaid. And that the said Elizabeth told these Informants, That the old

Beldam (meaning the said Anne West) did by Witchcraft kill the wife of one Robert Oaks of Lawford in the County aforesaid; and was the death of a Clothiers child of Dedham in the said Coun∣tie of Essex: both which dyed as these Informants very well know about a week since. And the said Elizabeth told these Informants, that the said old Beldam West had the wife of one William Cole of Mannintree aforesaid in handling, who dyed not long since of a pining and languishing disease.

The Information of George Turner taken upon oath the 25th day of March. 1645. before the said Justices.
THis Informant saith, That going to the said Elizabeth Clarke, alias Bedingfeild, after she was apprehended, and asking her whether she had any hand in the drowning of one Thomas Turner, this Informants Brother, who was cast away at Sea about thirty months since; the said Elizabeth answered, That the old Bell∣dam West raised that wind that sunk his Hoy: And that she the said Elizabeth had no hand in that business.


The Information of John Banks of Mannintree taken upon oath before the said Justices the 25th of March. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That watching with the said Elizabeth, he doth inform and confirm all the particulars expressed and set down in the Information of the said Mr Sterne.


The Information of Edward Parsley of Mannintree, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 25th of March. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That watching with the said Elizabeth Clarke, alias Bedingfeild, the last night, he asked the said Eliza∣beth if he should continue still in the room with her; And the said Elizabeth desired he should, if he would fight for her with the De∣vills, for they would come this night, and that which she called

Hoult would come first, and then that which she called Jarmara; which did appear in the likeness of a white Dog, with red spots; and presently after there appeared that Imp which she called Vinegar Tom; and then that which she called Sack and Su∣gar: And the said Elizabeth then told this Informant, that the Devil had had possession of her six or seven years. And that he had oftentimes knocked at her door in the night time; and that she did arise, open the door and let him in; and that he went to bed to her three or four times in a week, and had the carnal knowledge of her as a man.

The Examination of the said Elizabeth Clarke, alias Bedingfeild, taken before the said Justices the 25th of March. 1645.
THis Examinant saith, [8] That about six months since she met with the said Anne West, widow, (who is now likewise ap∣prehended) in a field near the house of the said Elizabeth, where the said Elizabeth was picking up a few sticks; The said Anne West seemed much to pity this Examinant for her lameness (ha∣ving but one leg) and her poverty; And said to this Examinant, That there was ways and means for her to live much better then now she did: And said, that she would send to this Examinant a thing like a little Kitlyn, which would fetch home some victu∣alls for this Examinant; and that it should doe her no hurt. And this Examinant saith, that within two or three nights after there came a white thing to her in the night, and the night after a gray one, which spake to this Examinant, and told her they would doe her no hurt, but would help her to an Husband, who should maintain her ever after: And that these two things came into this Examinants bed every night, or every other night, and sucked upon the lower parts of her body.


The Information of Robert Tailor of Mannintree, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 23th day of April. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That about nine weeks since, Elizabeth, the wife of Edward Gooding (who is accused by the said Eliza∣beth Clarke to be a confederate with her) came to the Shop of this

Informant, and desired to be trusted for half a pound of Cheese, which being denied, she went away, muttering and mumbling to her self, and within a few hours came again with money, and bought a pound of Cheese of this Informant, and the same night this Informant having an Horse standing in his stable, the said Horse was taken in a strange manner sick and lame; whereupon this Informant sent for four Ferriers to have their best advice, who could not discover the cause of the disease; but the said Horse about four days after died: And this Informant also saith, that it was observed by himself, and divers others, who often went to see the said Horse, that still upon their coming into the stable, he lay quiet, and looked cheerfully, but as soon as the door was shut, and the Horse alone, he did violently beat himself, and that the belly of the said Horse would rumble and make a noise, as a foul chimney set on fire: And this Informant further saith, that he is induced to believe, that the said Elizabeth Gooding was the cause of the death of his said Horse; for that this Informant hath heard, that Elizabeth Clark, and Anne Leech widow, (who stand both accused for Witchcraft, and have confessed themselves guilty) have impeached the said Elizabeth Gooding for killing of this said Horse, and that the said Elizabeth Gooding is a lewd woman, and to this Informants knowledge, hath kept company with the said Eliza∣beth Clark, Anne Leech, and Anne West, which Anne West hath been suspected for a Witch many years since, and suffered impri∣sonment for the same.

The Examination of Elizabeth Gooding, taken before the said Justices the 11th. of April, 1645.
THis Examinant saith, [9] that she is not guilty of any one parti∣cular charged upon her in the Information of the said Robert Tailor.


The Information of Richard Edwards of Mannintree aforesaid, taken before the said Justices the 23. day of April, 1645.
THis Informant saith, That about twelve months since, upon a Sabbath day, after the afternoon Sermon, driving his

Cows home by the house of Anne Leech of Mislay widow, about forty yards from her said house, a black Cow of this Infor∣mints, (being very well to his thinking) fell down, and within two days after died. And the very next day driving his Cows from the same pasture, this Informant had a white Cow that fell down within a Rod of the same place, where the other Cow fell, (being also, as this Informant conceived, sound and well) and within a weak after dyed; and he further saith, that he caused both the said Cows to be opened, and that there could be no dis∣ease discovered, which might occasion their death: And this In∣formant likewise saith, that about August last, he had a child nursed by one Goodwife Wiles, dwelling near the houses of the said Elizabeth Clark and Elizabeth Gooding, and that his said child was taken sick, and had very strange fits, extending the limbs, and rolling the eyes, and within two days after dyed: And this Informant doth verily believe, that Anne Leech, and the said Eli∣zabeth Gooding, were the death of his said child, as is confessed by the said Anne Leech in her own Confession and Examination.

The Examination of Anne Leech of Mislay in the County aforesaid, widow, taken before the said Justices, April 14. 1645.
THis Examinant saith, [10] That she had a grey Impesent to her, and that this Examinant, together with the said Elizabeth Clark, and Elizabeth, the wife of Edward Gooding, did about a year since, send their Imps to kill a black Cow and a white Cow of Mr. Edwards, which was done accordingly: And this Examinant saith, that she sent her gray Imp, Elizabeth Clark a black Imp, and Eli∣beth Gooding a white Imp: And this Examinant saith, that about thirty years since, she sent a gray Imp to kill two Horses of one Mr. Brag of Mislay, which were killed accordingly; and that the occasion of her malice was, because Mistress Brag had told this Examinant, that she suspected her to be a naughty woman; and this Examinant confesses, that she and the said Eliz. Gooding, sent either of them an Imp to destroy the child of the said Mr. Edwards; this Examinants Imp being then a white one, and Eli∣zabeth Goodings a black Imp; and that about thirty years since,

this Examinant had the said white Imp, and two others, a gray, and a black Imp of one Anne, the wife of Robert Pearce of Stoic in Suffolk, being her brother; and that these Imps went com∣monly from one to another, and did mischief where ever they went; and that when this Examinant did not send and employ them abroad to do mischief, she had not her health, but when they were employed, she was healthful and well, and that these Imps did usually suck those teats which were found about the pri∣vie parts of her body; and that the said Imps did often speak to this Examinant, and told her, she should never feel hell torments, and that they spake to her in an hollow voice, which she plainly understood: And this Examinant also confess∣seth, that she sent her gray Imp to Elizabeth, the daughter of To∣bert Kirk of Mannyntree, about three years since, to destroy her; and upon the sending of the said Imp, the said Elizabeth languish∣ed by the space of one whole year, until she dyed, and that the occasion of offence this Examinant took against her the said Eli∣zabeth was, for that she had asked a Coif of the said Elizabeth, which she refused to give to this Examinant. And further, this Examinant saith, that long since, but the exact time she cannot remember, she sent her gray Imp to kill the daughter of the widow Rawlyns of Mislay aforesaid; and the reason was, because this Ex∣eminent was put out of her Farm, and the said widow Rawlyns put in, where she dwells at this present. And moreover, this Examinant confesses, that she was acquainted with the sending of an Imp by the aforesaid Elizabeth Gooding, to vex and torment Mary the wife of John Tailor of Mannyntree aforesaid about three years since; and this Examinant being asked why she did not dis∣cover it to the said Mary, she said, the Devil would not suffer her, and that the cause of the said Elizabeth Goodings malice against the said Mary was, because the said Mary refused to give to the said Elizabeth some Beeregood. And lastly, this Examinant saith, that about eight weeks since, this Examinant, the said Elizabeth Gooding, and one Anne West of Lawford widow, met together at the house of the said Elizabeth Clark, where there was a book read, wherein she thinks there was no goodness.

The Information of Grace the wife of Richard Glascock of Mannyntree, taken upon oath before the said Justices, the 11th day of April, 1645.
THis Informant saith, that there being some falling out between Mary the wife of Edward Parsley of Mannyntree, and one Hell∣len Clark, the wife of Thomas Clark (which said Helen is the daughter of the said Anne Leech, whose confession doth emma∣diately precede) this Informant heard the said Helen to say, as the said Helen passed by this Informants door in the street, that Mary the daughter of the said Edward and Mary Parsley should rue for all, whereupon, presently the said Mary the daughter, fell sick, and died within six weeks after.


The Information of Edward Parsley of Mannyntree, taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 11. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that his said daughter sickened very sud∣denly, as the said Grace Glascock hath before informed, and died about six weeks since; and this Informant doth verily believe, the said Helen Clark was the death of his said daughter.


The Examination of Helen Clark, taken before the said Justices the 11th of April, 1645.
THis Examinant confesses, [11] that about six weeks since, the De∣will appeared to her in her house, in the likeness of a white Dog, and that she calls that Familiar Elimanzer; and that this Examinant hath often fed him with milk-pottage; and that the said Familiar spake to this Examinant audibly, and bade her deny Christ, and she should never want, which she did then assent unto, but doth altogether deny the killing of the daugh∣la of the said Edward Parsley.

The Information of Prudence Hart, the wife of Thomas Hart of Lawford, taken upon oath before us the 23. of April, 1645.
THis Informant saith, that about eight week since, being at her Parish Church, on the Sabbath day, half a mile distant from her house, and being about twenty weeks gone with child, and to her thinking, very well and healthful, upon the sudden she was taken with great pains, and miscarried before she could be got home; and this Examinant saith, that about two months since, being in her bed, in the night, something fell down upon her right side, but being dark, she cannot tell in what shape it was: And that presently she was taken lame on that side, with extraor∣dinary pains and burning, but recovered again within a few days after: And this Informant further saith, that she verily believes, that Rebecca West, and Anne West her mother, were the cause of her pains; for that the said Rebecca hath in part of her Confess∣zion expressed, that she had much maliced this Informant, be∣cause the said Rebecca West ever thought this Informant to be her greatest enemy.


The Information of John Edes, Clerk, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 28th day of April. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That Rebecca West confessed unto him, that about seven years since, she began to have familiarity with the Devil, by the instigation of her mother Anne West; who hath appeared unto the said Rebecca at several times, in di∣verse shapes: At one time in the likeness of a proper young man, who desired of her, that he might have the same familiarity with her, that others that appeared unto her before had had: Promi∣sing that if she would, he would then doe for the said Rebecca what she desired, and avenge her on her enemies; but required further; that she would deny God, and rely upon him. Now there was one Thomas Hart of Lawford, where the said Rebecca

lived with her said mother, Anne West, and the said Rebecca told this Informant, that she required of him, that he would avenge her on the said. Hart by killing his son, who not long after was taken sick, and dyed, whereupon the said. Rebecca told this Infor∣mant, that she conceived he could do as God; after which time she gave entertainment to him, who lay with her as a man; and the said Rebecca further confessed to this Informant, that whilst she lived at Rivenall in the said. County of Essex, the said Anne her mother, came to the said Rebecca, and told her the Barley corn was picked up (meaning one George Frances (the only son of one George Frances, one of the chief Inhabitants of that town, where the said Anne West dwelt) and that his father thought the said George his son was bewitched to death; and the said Anne then said unto the said Rebecca, Be it unto him according to his faith.

The Confession of Rebecca West, [12] taken before the said Justices at Mannyntree, the 21. of March, 1645.
THis Examinant saith, that about a month since, the aforesaid Anne Leech, Elizabeth Gooding, Helen Clark, Anne West, and this Examinant, met all together at the house of the aforesaid Eli∣zabeth Clark in Mannyntree, where they together spent some time in praying unto their Familiars, and every one in order went to prayers; afterwards some of them read in a book, the book being Elizabeth Clerks; and this Examinant saith, that forthwith their Familiars appeared, and every one of them made their several Propositions to those Familiars, what every one of them desired to have effected: And this Examinant saith, that first of all the said Elizabeth Clark desired of her Spirit, that Mr. Edwards might be met withal about the middle bridge, as he should come riding from Eastberyhoult in Suffolk; that his Horse might be scared, and he thrown down, and never rise again: And this Examinant saith, that the said Elizabeth Gooding desired of her Spirit, that she might be avenged on Robert Tailors Horse, for that the said Robert suspected the said Elizabeth Gooding for the killing of an Horse of the said Robert formerly: And this examinant saith, that the said Helen Clark desired of her Spirit, that she might be reven∣general

on two Hogs in Mislay street, (being the place where the said Helen lived) one of the Hogs to die presently, and the other to be taken lame; and this Examinant further saith, that Anne Leeeb desired of her Spirit, that a Cow might be taken lame of a mans living in Mannyntree, but the name of the man this Exam∣nant cannot remember: And this examinant further saith, that the said Anne West, this Examinants mother, [13] desired of her Spy∣rit, that she might be freed from all her enemies, and have no trouble: And this Examinant saith, that she desired of her Spy∣rit, that she might be revenged on Prudence the wife of Thomas Hart, and that the said Prudence might be taken lame on her right side. And lastly this Examinant saith, that having thus done, this Examinant, and the other five, did appoint the next meeting to be at the said Elizabeth Goodings house, and so depar∣ted all to their own houses.

The Information of Richard Edwards of Mannintree, Gent. taken upon oath before the said Justices the 23th of April. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That not long since, about three months to his best remembrance, as he was coming from Eastberyholt in Suffolk, half an hour within evening; within ten score of the middle bridge (according to the desire of the said Elizabeth Clarke, as is declared in the confession of the said Rebecca West) this In∣formants horse started with him, and greatly endangered him; and he heard something about his horse cry, Ah, ah; much like the shriek of a Polecat. And this Informant saith, That with much difficulty he saved himself from being thrown off his horse. All which, this Informant reported to his wife and neighbours as soon as he came home.


The Information of Matthew Hopkins, Gent. taken upon oath before the said Justices the 18th of April. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That being lately at Colchester, he went to the Castle, where the said Rebecca West, with the other five,


are secured until the next Gaol delivery: And this Informant going to Rebeeca West, and asking her how she came first to be a Witch, the said Rebecca told this Informant, that about a year since, or thereabouts, half an hour before Sun-set, the said Anne West (her mother) carried the said Rebecca West towards Man∣nintree, (which is about a small mile from the place where the said Anne dwelt) and the said Rebecca told this Informant, that as her mother and she walked together, the said Anne told the said Re∣becca, she must keep secret whatsoever she saw, whither they were then going; and the said Rebecca promised so to doe; And the said Rebecca told this Informant, that her mother and she went to the house of the aforesaid Elizabeth Clarke, where at their coming in they found the aforesaid Anne Leech, widow, Eliza∣beth Gooding, Helen Clarke, and the house-keeper Elizabeth Clarke, and that forthwith the Devil appeared to them in the shape of a dog; afterwards in the shape of two Kitlyns; then in the shape of two dogs; and that the said familiars did doe homage in the first place to the said Elizabeth Clarke, and skipped up into her lap, and kissed her; and then went and kissed all that were in the room, except the said Rebecca: And the said Rebecca told this Informant, that immediately one of their company asked the said Anne her mother, if she had acquainted her daughter (the said Rebecca) with the business; and her mother answered she had, and told them all, they need not fear her the said Rebecca for re∣vealing any thing: And the said Rebecca told this Informant, that forthwith the said Anne Leech pulled out a book, and swore the said Rebecca never to reveal any thing she saw or heard; and if she should discover any thing, they all told the said Rebecca, she should endure more torments on earth, then could be in hell: And the said Rebecca told this Informant, that she promised to keep all their secrets; And moreover, they all told her, that she must never confess any thing, although the Rope were about her neck, and she ready to be hanged: And that after she had con∣scented to all these things, the Devil came into her lap, and kissed her, and promised to doe for her what she could desire; and that within half a year after the Devil appeared to her the said Rebecca, as she was going to bed, and told her, he would marry her, and that she could not deny him; she said he kissed her,


but was as cold as clay, and married her that night, in this man∣ner; He took her by the hand and lead her about the Chamber, and promised to be her loving husband till death, and to avenge her of her enemies; And that then she promised him to be his obedient wife till death, and to deny God and Christ Jesus; And the said Rebecca told this Informant, that she sent the De∣will to kill the son of the said Thomas Hart, which he did within one fortnight; and that after that she took him for her God, and thought he could doe as God.

The Information of Susan Sparrow, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 25th day of April. An. Doom. 1645. at Little Bentley.
THis Informant saith, That about thirty years since, living un∣der the same roof with Mary Greenleif of Alresford, either of them had a Daughter of about thirteen or fourteen years of age, and being one night in bed with their children, this Informant heard the child of the said Mary Greenleif to cry out in a fearful manner; Oh Mother, now it comes, it comes, oh help mother, it hurts me, it hurts me: Whereupon this Informant called to the said Mary, and said, Good-wife Greenleife, Good-wife Greenleife, if your child be asleep, awaken it, for if any body comes by, and hear it make such moan (you having an ill name already) they will say, You are suckling your Imps upon it: Whereupon the said Mary replied; I doe so indeed, and I will fee with them (meaning her said Imps,) that they shall suck my daughter one night, and thine another: And this Informant saith, that the very next night, her child cried out in the same manner, and clasped her arms about this Informants neck, being much affrighted, sweating, and shrieking in a terrible manner, complaining that she was nipped and pinched on her thigh; and that the next morn∣ing searching what the cause should be, she found above the right knee of her child, a black and blew spot, as broad and long as her hand: And this Informant saith, that her child did complain on that leg, at least a month after. And this Informant saith, that the house where this Informant and the said Mary did dwell

together, was haunted with a Liveried, which did usually fit before the door: And this Informant knowing that one Anthony Shar∣lock had an excellent Greyhound that had killed many Hares; and having heard that a child of the said Anthony was much haunted and troubled, and that the mother of the child suspected the said Mary to be the cause of it: This Informant went to the said Anthony Sherlock and acquainted him, that a Liveried did usu∣ally come and sit before the door, where this Informant and the said Mary Greenleife lived, and desired the said Anthony to bring down his Greyhond to see if he could kill the said Liveried; and the next day the said Anthony did accordingly bring his Grey∣hound, and coursed it, but whether the dog killed it this Infor∣mant knows not; But being a little before coursed by Good-man Merrills dog, the dog ran at it, but the Liveried never stirred, and just when the dog came at it, he skipped over it, and turned about and stood still, and looked on it, and shortly after that dog lan∣guished and dyed. But whether this was an Imp in the shape of a Liveried, or had any relation to the said Mary, this Informant knows not, but does confess she wondered very much to see a Liveried, wilde by nature, to come so frequently and sit openly be∣fore the door in such a familiar way.

The Information of Elizabeth Hunt and Priscilla Brigs, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 25th day of April. 1645.
THese Informants say, That being by the said Justices employ∣ed to search the said Mary Greenleife, upon suspect for being a Witch, these Informants found that the said Mary had bags or teats in her secret parts, not like Emerods, nor in those places where women use to be troubled with them; and that they verily believe, these teats are sucked by her Imps; for that these Infor∣mints have been formerly employed to search other women suspe∣cted for Witchcraft, who have had the like bags, and have after∣wards confessed themselves to be Witches.

The Examination of Mary Greenleife taken before the said Justices, April 25. 1645.
THis Examinant being asked how she came by those teats which were discovered in her secret parts, She saith she knows not unless she were born with them; but she never knew she had any such until this time, they were found in those parts upon the said search; And she does deny that ever she had any Imp sucked on these teats: But she does confess she hath seen a Liveried once sitting before her door within a yard of the threshold; and that she wondered much at it, being about noon time as she remembers. And further saith, she is not guilty of any accusation charged upon her this Examinant.


The Information of Elizabeth Otley of Wyvenhoe taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 25. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that Alice Dixon (who now stands committed for a suspected Witch) did in the presence of Mary Johnson of the same Town, charge and accuse the said Mary Johnson to be the death of his Informants child, saying, that the said Mary Johnson did carry an Imp in her pocket to this Informants house, and put the said Imp into the house, at an hole in the door, bidding it go rock the Cradle, and do the business she sent it about, and return to her again: And this Informant saith, that upon a Monday before Michaelmas last, the said Mary Johnson came to the house of this Informant, and gave her child an apple, and kissed it; And within a short time after the said child sickened and died: And the said Alice Dixon did also affirm, that the Imp which the said Mary Johnson sent to this Informants house, was in shape somewhat like a Rat, but without tail and ears. And this Informant saith, that the said Mary Johnsons answer was, that if she did it, she did it, she could but receive punishment for it. And at the same time the said Mary Johnson said, the said Alice Dixon did the mischief to this Informants child her self. And this Informant further


saith, that after the said Alice Dixon had made this discovery, she, this Informant, was taken with extreme pains in her body, and that during the time of her extremity, the said Mary John∣son did many times come to this Informants house, persuading her, that she was not the death of this Informants child: But this Informant could not be satisfied until she had gotten the blood of the said Mary Johnson; And meeting with her after long scuffling, this Informant made the said Mary Johnsons teeth to bleed, and immediately after, this Informants extra∣ordinary pains left her, and her stomach came to her, having eat little or nothing a fortnight before, and slept very well the night following, having been restless by reason of her ex∣treme pains all the time aforesaid. And this Informant fur∣there saith, that the next day after the said Mary Johnson had given this Informants child the Apple, the child was taken with very violent fits, and in the fits (although the Child was but two years old) yet this Informant could very hardly with all her strength hold it down in the Cradle, and so continued until it died.

The Examination of Mary Johnson taken before the said Justices the 25. of April, 1645.
THis Examinant saith, that she is not guilty of any one par∣ticular charged upon her in the Information of the said Elizabeth Otley touching the killing of the child of the said Eli∣zabeth.


The Information of Ioseph Long Minister of Clacton in the County of Essex, taken before the said Just: April 29. 1645.
THis Informant saith, [14] that Anne the wife of John Cooper of Clacton aforesaid, being accused for a Witch: Confessed unto this Informant, that she the said Anne was guilty of the sin of Witchcraft; and that she hath had three black Imps suckled on the lower parts of her body: called by the names of

Wynowe, Jeso, and Panu: And this Informant saith, that the said Anne told him, that once she cursed a Colt of one William Cottingams of Clacton aforesaid, and the said Colt broke his neck presently after going out of a gate: And the said Anne fur∣there confessed unto this Informant, that she the said Anne offer∣ed to give unto her daughter Sarah Cooper an Imp in the likeness of a gray Kite, to suck on the said Sarah: which Imps name the said Anne called Tom boy: and told the said Sarah, there was a Cat for her; And this Informant saith, that the said Anne confessed unto him, that she the said Anne about ten years since falling out with Johan the wife of Gregory Rous of Clacton a fore∣said; the said Anne Cooper sent one of her Imps to kill the daughter of the said Gregory and Johan named Mary: And this Informant saith, that to his own knowledge about the same time the said child was strangely taken sick, and languishing, within a short time died.

The Information of Roger Hempson taken upon oath be∣fore the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THis Informant doth confirm the Information of the said Joseph Lunge, and concurs in every particular.


The Information of Roger Hempson taken upon oath be∣fore the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that Mr. Lunge telling Elizabeth Hare, [15] that she was accused by one Mary Smith, for giving of her the said Mary two Imps: And that the said Elizabeth Hare, praying to God with her hands upward, that if she were guilty of any such thing, He would show some example upon her: And this Informant saith, that presently after she shaked and quivered, and fell down to the ground backward, and tum∣bled up and down upon the ground, and hath continued sick ever since.

The Information of Anaball the wife of George Durrant taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that about ten months since, going from Wivenhoe towards Fingeringhoe, in the County of Essex, by the way Mary Johnson the wife of Nicholas Johnson met with this Informant, whom this Informant never saw before to her knowledge; And this Informant leading her Child up∣on her hand, being about two years old, and perfectly well: the said Mary Johnson took occasion of her own accord to com∣mend the said Child, saying, it was a pretty child; and stroa∣ked it upon the face, and gave it a piece of bread and butter, and so left this Informant. And this Informants child did eat a piece of the said bread and butter: and within half a quarter of an hour after, her said child shrieked and dried out it was lame; And this Informant carried her child home, and had the advice of one Mr. Dauber a Surgeon, who could find no na∣turall cause of its lameness; and so the said child continued for the space of eight days shrieking and tearing it self, and then died.

And further, this Informant saith, that immediately after the death of her child, she was taken with extreme pains in her body, sometimes every day or at least every third day, for the space of seven or eight months together as if she had been to be delivered of a child, but was not with child; And this In∣formant saith, that setting up of broom in an out-house pre∣sently after her child was dead, she had the perfect represent∣tion of a shape, to her thinking, like the said Mary Johnson, and was struck with a lameness in her Arms, and such a stiffness that three or four that came to help her, were not able to bow her Arms: and this Informant continued speechless all that day and the night following, and had such a weakness in the rest of her limbs, that she was carried into her house by some of her friends, and continued by the space of a fortnight, being before until this present (as she conceived) in perfect health and strength: And further this Informant saith, that she being

charged by the Constable by virtue of a Warrant to give this her Information before the said Justices against the said Mary Johnson this day: this Informants husband called her up in the morning, wishing her to make her ready to go before the said Justices; And presently after he gave a great shriek, and said the said Mary Johnson would be his death, and had a great swelling risen up in his breast, and now lies sweating, and in great extremity. And at this very instant a noise was heard in the Room where her husband lay like an Hornet, and there∣upon her husband cried out, It comes, it comes, Now good wife Johnsons Imp is come, Now she hath my life; And forthwith a great part of the wall in the said room fell down. And this In∣formant saith, that she doth verily believe the said Mary John∣son was the cause of her child's death: And that she is now the cause of her husbands extremity.

The Information of Ric. Carter and Heary-Cornwall of Thorpe, taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THese Informants say, that being appointed to watch Mar∣garet Moon, after she was accused and apprehended for a Witch, the said Margaret going about the Room, these In∣formants did see a thing drop from under her coats (as they thought) in the likeness of a Rat for bigness and shape, but of a greyer colour; And presently there was such an extreme offen five stink in the Room, that these Informants were scarce able to endure to stay in it; And these Informants asking the said Margaret what it was that dropped from her, she bids them coop it up and catch it if they could. And this Informant Henry Cornwall saith, that the said Margaret did confess to him that she had twelve Imps, and called them by their names; of which he remembers only these following: Jesus, Jockey, Sandy, Mris. Elizabeth, and Colin.

The Information of Will. Dammon, Hen. Cornwall, Bevis Vincent, and Tho. Burles, taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THese Informants say, that upon the 21. day of April last past, they heard Margaret Moon confess, that she was a Witch, and that she had twelve Imps, that she had killed a Cow of Stephen Cookers, and had two Cows more of the said Stephen in handling; that she had killed a Cow and a Sow of Henry Robertsons. That she was partner with the aforesaid Eliz: Clark of Mannintree, in killing of a Child of one Mr. Edwards of Mannintree aforesaid, and spoiling of 3 Brewings of beer of the said Mr. Edwards. That she the said Margaret Moon spoiled a batch of bread of one Philip Berrimans; that she was the cause that one Philip Daniels horse broke his neck going down an hill in his Waggon. And the said Informant saith, that the said M: Moon did freely and voluntarily confess unto him, without any question being asked, that she was the cause of the death of Johan Cornwall this Informants daughter. And this Infor∣mant saith, that the said Margaret Moon before his child fell sick, sent for this Informant to do some work for her, and then she desired to buy an Hook which he carried with him in his hand; And they agreed she should have the said Hook for half a peck of Apples: And as this Informant went home he did eat one of the said Apples, and was presently taken sick with an extreme shaking and pain in all parts of his body; And his Informants wife knowing the said Margaret Moon to be a woman of a very bad fame and suspected for a Witch, and had formerly been questioned at an Assize for the same, she flung away the Apples. And this Informant saith, that he continued in great extremity for the space of twelve weeks, and most part of that; time deprived of his senses. And at the same time his wife was taken in the same manner, and is not yet perfectly re∣covered. And lastly this Informant saith, that the next day after he had been at the said Margarets house as aforesaid, that his child (which the said Margaret confessed she was the death of) was taken sick with strange fits, and shrieking out, and so continued languishing for a month, and died.

The Information of Richard Caley of Thorpe taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that being called into the house where Bevis Vincent, and Henry Cornwall were appointed by the neighbours of Thorpe aforesaid to watch Merge∣ret Moon, the said Margaret did confess before this Informant, that she had by Witchcraft killed a Cow and a Sow of one Henry Robinsons. And that one Henry Dorr being then called to write what she should confess, the said Margaret refused to make any further discovery, before this Informant; but fell upon other discourse, saying, that she had been told forty times, that this Informant thought in his conscience she was no Witch: And that this Informant knew that one William Ca∣ley his brother let the said Margaret an House about twenty years since, and afterwards warned her out of the said house; and that then she went into an house that was built for her by one Thomas Turner, and being also turned out of Turners house, that one Rawbood and his wife gave ten shillings more for the said house, then the said Margaret, and came and dwelt in the said house: But the said Margaret said, they (meaning the said Rawbood and his wife) had as good they had not meddled with the house, for they did never thrive after. And this Informant saith, that after the said Rawbood had taken the said house, he and his wife were always lame or sick until they died: and that the wife of the said Rawbood being a very tidy and clean∣lie woman, sitting upon a block after dinner with another Neighbour a little before it was time to go to Church (and as he remembers) upon an Easter day, the said Rawboods wife was on the sudden so filled with Lice, that they might have been swept off her clothes with a stick; And this Informant saith he did see them, and that they were long, and lean, and not like other Lice. And this Informant being asked, whether the said Margaret were at this time sensible, he saith that she spake very plainly and very intelligently, discoursing of some things done long before, her memory serving her very exactly.


The Information of Francis Milles taken upon oath be∣fore the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that being employed by the Neigh∣bours of Thorpe aforesaid, to search Margaret Moon, who was suspected for a Witch, she found three long teats or bags in her secret parts, which seemed to have been lately sucked; and that they were not like Piles, for this Informant knows well what they are, having been troubled with them her self. And this Informant saith, that she asking the said Mar∣garet for her Imps, which sucked those teats: she said, if she might have some bread and beer, she would call her said Imps; which being given unto her, she put the bread into the beer, and set it against an hole in the wall, and made a circle round about the pot, and then cried, Come Christ, come Christ, come Monsieur, come Monsieur: And no Imp appearing, she cried out and said, she had Devilish Daughters which had car∣ried her Imps away in a white bag, and wished they might be searched, for they were nought: And upon the searching of her Daughters, this Informant found that two of them had bags in their privy parts as the said Margaret their mother had.


The Information of Mary Philips, Elizabeth Harris, wi∣dow, Susan Burles, and Philip Tumnor taken upon oath before the said Justices, April 29. 1645.
THese Informants do all and every of them concur with Frances Milles in her said Information, in that particular concerning the teats of the said Margaret Moon, and her two daughters; And the said Mary Philips doth also confirm and concur with that part of the Information of the said Fran∣ces Milles, touching the pot, the circle, and the calling of the Imps by the said Margaret Moon.

And this Informant Mary Philips doth also say, that being sent for to search the said Margaret Moon, as she was coming

towards Thorpe aforesaid, and going over a broad foot Bridge, this Informant sensibly felt a great blow on her head, which struck her into a ditch up to the neck. And this Informant and the said Fran∣cis Mylles, doe both of them say, That as soon as they came into the room where the said Margaret Moon was, she called these two Informants, Mannintree Rogues (they both dwelling at a Town so called,) and said, Who a Devil sent for you? But I hope I have met with some of you.

The Examination of Margaret Moon, [16] taken before the said Justices, the 29. day of May, 1645.
THis Examinant being examined to all the particulars charged upon her, in all the aforesaid several information, denies eve∣rye particular.


The Examination of Judith Moon, daughter of the said Margaret Moon, taken before the said Justices the 29th day of April. 1645.
THis Examinant (being a single woman and having such marks of a Witch, as aforesaid) saith, that about a fortnight before her Mother was apprehended for a Witch, the said Margaret bid this Examinant go and fetch a bundle of wood, and this Exam∣nant told her mother she would not fetch any wood: Whereup∣on the said Margaret threatened this Examinant, and told her she had as good have gone for some wood; And that the next night as this Examinant lay in her bed, she felt something come into the bed, about her legs, being at that time broad awake, and that she searched to see what it should be, but could not find any thing.


The Information of Bridget Reynolds, the wife of Ed∣monte Reynolds of Ramsay in the said County of Essex, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 3rd of May. 1645.
THis Informant saith, That she with some other women, were Sarah Hitting, the wife of William Hauny, Elizabeth Harvy, widow, and marian Hocket, widow, who are all suspected for witchcraft, and upon her said search (being a Mid∣wife) found such Marks, or Bags in their privy parts, that she never saw in other women: for Sarah Hating had four Teats, or Bags in those parts, almost an inch long, and as big as this In∣formants little finger: That the said Elizabeth Harvy had three such Bags, and about the said scantling: And that the said Mari∣an Hock• had no such bags; but was found in the same parts not like other honest women. And this Informant further saith. That the said Elizabeth Harvy said (since she was found with the said suss∣piteous marks) unto this Informant, That if she were a Witch, she was so made by the said Marian Hocket; for that the said Marian brought unto her the said Elizabeth Harrvy, three things about the bigness of Mouses, and willed the said Elizabeth to make much of them, for they were pretty things; which the said Elizabeth recei∣ved: And the said Elizabeth told this Informant, that ever since she received those three things which the said Marian delivered unto her, she hath been much torn and troubled in her privy parts, where the said Bags were found. And that the said three things were delivered to her the said Elizabeth about six or seven years since.


The Information of Elizabeth Durden, the wife of Edwward Durden, Mary Philips, taken upon oath before the said Justices the 3rd day of May 1645.
THese Informants do concur in every particular with the said Briget Reynolds in her Information touching the search of the said Sarah Haring, Elizabeth Harvie, and Marian Hocket: And this Informant Elizabeth Durden further saith, that the said Elizabeth Harvie told her, that if she were a Witch, she was so made by the said Marian Hocket.


The Information of Francis Stock and John Batilly, taken upon oath, before the said Justices, May 3. 1645.
THese Informants say, that the said Elizabeth Harvie confessed to them with many tears, that she had three marks, two be∣fore and one behind her (as is already informed by Bridget Reynolds and others,) And that the said Marian Hocket made her have the said marks or bags, by bringing of three things to her the said Elizabeth, and telling her, if she would receive them, she should never in no so long as she lives, which three things have since made the said marks in her privy parts, and the said Elizabeth told these Informants, that the said three things were of a reddish color, and that since, the said Marian, and the said Elizabeth falling out, she the said Elizabeth would have put away & sent home the three things which the said Marian brought to her, and that ever since the said things have tormented her in her bed, in the places before∣said, as if they had pulled her in pieces.


The second Information of Francis Stock, taken be∣fore the said Justices upon oath, May 3. 1645.
THis Informant saith, that about five years since, being one of the Constables of Ramsay aforesaid, he impressed William Hitting, husband to the aforesaid Sarah Hating for a soldier, whereupon the said William threatened this Informant very much, and not long after, this Informants wife told him, she espied a Snake lying upon a shelf in this Informants house, about three yards high from the ground, which falling down into the house, she endeavoured to kill with a spade; and striking at it, the Snake suddenly vanished away, and could no where be found: And this Informant saith, that presently after his said wife was taken sick with extraordinary fits, pains and burning all over her body, and within one week dyed: And further this Informant saith, that within two or three days, after the death of his said wife, he had a daughter taken sick after a very strange manner, who in all the time of her sickness, cried out much on the said

Sarah, the wife of the said William Hating, saying, that the said Sarah was the cause of her death, and dyed presently after; and that within two or three days after the death of his said child, this Informant had another child taken sick in the same manner, and within a few days dyed also: And lastly, this Informant saith, that about three quarters of a year after, he had a man-ser∣vant, that for some ill language given to him by John Hating, one of the sons of the said William and Sarah Hating, his said ser∣vant did beat the said John, and the very next day he was taken sick, and so continued in a pining and languishing condition, cry∣ing out often of the said Sarah, that she had bewitched him, and was the cause of his death, which soon after ensued.

The Information of Francis Stock, and John Felgate, taken upon oath before the said Justices, May 3. 1645.
THis Informant John Felgate saith, that speaking with one Sarah Barton, the sister of the said Marian Hocket (which said Sarah is now imprisoned in the Gaol at Harwich upon suspi∣tion of Witchcraft) who told this Informant, that the said Marian had cut off her bags, whereby she might have been the more suspe∣cted to have been a Witch, and laid plasters to those places: And the said Francis and John say, that the said Sarah Barton, told them, that the said Marian had given and delivered unto her the said Sarah three Imps, and that the said Marian called them by the names of Littleman, Pretty-man, and Dainty.


The Examination of Marian Hocket, Sarah Hating, and Elizabeth Harvie of Ramsay within the County aforesaid, taken before the said Justices, May 3. 1645.
THis Examinant, [17] Marian Hocket saith, that she is not guilty of any of the particulars charged upon her, touching Witch∣craft, notwithstanding the several accusations against her.

THis Examinant, Sarah Hating saith, [18] that she is not guilty of any particular wherewith she stands charged in the Inform∣tion of Francis Stock and others.
THis Examinant, Elizabeth Harvie saith, [19] that about half a year since, the said Marian Hocket brought three things to her house, two of them being smaller then Mouses, and the other somewhat bigger and longer; and that the said Marian told this examinant they were pretty things, and would do her and this Examinant good, if she this Examinant would keep them; and that after∣wards she was very much pained in those parts of her body where the said tears or bags were discovered by the said searchers, as aforesaid.


The Information of Robert Turner of St. Osith Car∣penter, taken upon oath before the said Justices, May 6. 1465.
THis Informant saith, that about eight days since, his servant was taken sick, shaking and shrieking, and crying out of Rose Hallybread, that she had bewitched him: And this Informant saith, that sometimes his said servant, since he was taken sick, as aforesaid, hath crowed perfectly as a Cock; sometimes barked like a Dog; sometimes violently groaned beyond the ordinary course of nature; and struggling with such strength (being but a youth) that four or five strong men were not able to hold him down in his bed; and sometimes sung divers and sundry perfect tunes: And that this Informant could not perceive his mouth to open, or so much as his lips to stir all the time of his singing.


The Examination of Rose Hallybread, [20] taken before the said Justices, the 6th of May, 1645.
THis Examinant saith, that about fifteen or sixteen years since, there was an Imp brought to her house by one Goodwise Hag∣tree, which Imp this Examinant entertained, fed it with oatmeal,

and suckled it on her body, for the space of a year and a half, or thereabouts, and then lost it: And this Examinant further saith, that about half a year since, one Joyce Bones (who is now also ac∣cussed for Witchcraft) brought to this Examinants house another Imp, in the likeness of a small Gray bird, which this Examinant received, and carried it to the house of one Thomas Toakley of St. Osyth, and put the said Imp into a cranny of the door of the said Toakely's house, after which time the son of the said Thomas languished, and dyed, crying out of this Examinant, that she was his death: And this Examinant further saith, that about eight days since, Susan Cock, Margaret Landish, and Joyce Boands, (all which stand now suspected for Witchcraft) brought to his Exam∣nants house each of them an Imp, (in all three) to which this Ex∣eminent added one of her own Imps; and then the said Joyce Bones carried the said four Imps to the house of one Robert Tur∣ner, to torment his servant, because he had refused to give unto her this Examinant, the said Susan Cocks, Margaret Landish and Joyce Bones a few chips: And this Examinant further saith, that the said Robert Turners servant forthwith fell sick, and oftentimes barked like a Dog: And this Examinant saith, that she believes that the said four Imps were the cause of his barking and sickness.

The Examination of Joyce the wife of William Bones, [21] taken before the said Justices, May 6. 1645.
THis Examinant saith, that about thirteen years since, she had two Imps which came into the bed to her in the likeness of Mouses, and that they sucked on this Examinants body; and that afterwards this Examinant employed and sent the said Imps to a Farm house in St. Osyth, called Cocket-wick, where one Richard Wealth then lived, where the said Imps killed ten or twelve Lambs of the said Richards: And this Examinant saith further, that a little while after, she sent her said two Imps to the house of one Thomas Clinch, where they killed a Calf, a Sheep and a Lamb: And this Examinant also saith, that she carried one of her said Imps, called Rug, to the house of the said Rose Hallybread; and that her said Imp Rug, with three Imps of the said Rose Hallybread,
Susan Cock, and Margaret Landish, each of them sending out, were carried by this Examinant from the house of the said Rose Hallybread, to the house of the said Robert Turner to kill the ser∣vant of the said Robert; whereupon his said servant hath often∣times crowed like a Cock, barked like a Dog, sung tunes, and groaned: And this Examinant saith, that her said Imp made the said servant to bark like a Dog; the Imp of the said Rose Hally∣bread enforced him to sing sundry tunes in his great extremity of pains; the Imp of the said Susin Cock, compelled him to crow like a Cock; and the Imp of Margaret Landish made him groan in such an extraordinary manner.

The Examination of Susan Cock, [22] taken before the said Justices the 6. day of May, 1645.
THis Examinant saith, that about three or four years since, one Margery Stoakes, this Examinants mother, lying upon her death-bed, and this Examinant coming to visit her, she the said Margery desired this Examinant privately, to give entertainment to two of her Imps, and withal told this Examinant, they would do this Examinant good: And this Examinant saith, that the same night her said mother dyed, the said two Imps came to her accordingly, and sucked on he body: And this Examinant saith, that one of the said Imps was like a mouse, and the name of that was Susan; that the other was of a yellow colour, about the big∣ness of a Cat; and that the name of that Imp was Bess: And this Examinant saith, that she employed her said Imp called Bess, together with the Imps of the said Rose Hallybread, Joyce Bones, and Margaret Landish, each of them one, to the house of one John Spall, where the said Imps killed ten or twelve Sheep of the said John Spalls; and that the cause of this Examinants malice was, because she being with child, desired to have some curds of the said Spalls wife, which she refused, either to give or sell to this Ex∣eminent: And further, this Examinant saith, that about a week since, she, together with Joyce Bones, Rose Hallibread, and Mar∣garet Landish sent four Imps to the house of one Robert Tuener (by the said Joyce Bones) to torment his servant, for that the said

servant of the said Robert Turner refused to give to this Examinant a sack full of chips: And this Examinant further saith, that she, to∣gether with the said Margaret Landish, sent her Imp to the house of one Thomas Mannock in St Osyth aforesaid, where their said Imps killed six or seven shoots or hogs of the said Mr Mannock; and that the occasion of offence was, because the wife of the said Mr Mannock refused to give to this Examinant such relief as she de∣sired, telling this Examinant, that she was a young woman, and able to work for her living.

The Examination of Margaret Landishe, [23] taken before the said Justices the 6th day of May. 1645.
THis Examinant saith, That about eight or nine weeks since lying sick by the fire side in her own house, something came up to her body, and sucked on her privy parts, and much pained and tormented her: And this Examinant saith, that if it were an Imp that came and sucked her as aforesaid, that the said Susan Cock sent it to her: And this Examinant denies, that ever she joined with the said Joyce Bones, Rose Hallibread, and Susan Cock, in the tormenting of the servant of the said Robert Turner, & doth utterly deny the sending of any Imp to destroy or kill the hogs of the said Mr Mannock, as the said Susan Cock hath charged her withal in the Examination of the said Susan.


The Examination of Rebecca Jones of St Osyth, [24] taken before the said Justices the 9th of May. 1645.
THis Examinant saith, That about 24. or 25 years since, dwell∣ling with one John Bishop, of Much-Clacton in the County of Essex as his servant, there came one morning one to the door of the said John Bishop and knocked, and that this Examinant go∣ing to the door, she saw there a very handsome young man (as she then thought) but now she thinks it was the Devil; who asked this Examinant how she did, and desired to see her left Wrist, which she showed unto him: and that he then took a pin
from this Examinants own sleeve, and pricked her wrist twice, and there came out a drop of blood, which he took off with the top of his finger, and so departed. And this Examinant saith, that about a quarter of a year after, as she was going to St Osyth, (where this Examinant doth now dwell) to sell her said Masters butter, a man met with her, being in a ragged suit, and having such great eyes, that this Examinant was much afraid of him; who came to this Examinant, and gave her three things like to Mouses, having four feet apiece, but without tails, and of a black colour, and bid this Examinant nurse the said three things, until he did desire them again; And this Examinant asked the said man, what she should give them to eat, and he told this Exa∣minant milk, and that they would not hurt her, and wished her not to be afraid of them; And the said man told this Examinant, that those three things which he gave her, would avenge her on her enemies, and bid her murder some, but not too many, and he would forgive her; and then went away from this Examinant: And this Examinant saith, that the first time she employed any of the said things, she sent one of them to kill a Sow of one Banjo∣min Howes of Little-Clacton in the County aforesaid; and the said Sow was killed by the said Imp accordingly: And this Exam∣nant saith, that the names of her three Imps were Margaret, A∣my, and Susan: And that a while after, this Examinant and one Joyce Bones (now in prison) did send each of them an Imp to kill one Thomas Bumstead of St Osyth aforesaid, who died about three weeks after. And this Examinant saith, that she beleeveth that the said two Imps did kill the said Thomas Bumstead; and the Imps name which this Examinant sent to destroy the said Bum∣stead was Margaret: And that the Imp which the said Joyce Bones sent was a dund one like unto a Mouse. And this Examinant saith, that she did send another of her Imps called Amie, to the said Bumsteads house, which did kill the wife of the said Bumstead with∣in a short time after: And this Examinant confesses, that the cause of offence she took so to destroy and kill the said Bumstead and his wife, was because the said Thomas Bumstead did beat the son of this Examinant for eating up of some honey which he found about the house of the said Thomas Bumstead. And this Exa∣minant further confesses, that she did send her other third Imp


called Susan, to afflict the child of one Mistress Darcy of St Osyth a∣foresaid: But did withal bid the said Imp it should not hurt the said child too much, and come away again: And this Examinant saith, that the said Imp is come again from the said Mistress Dar∣cies child.

The Examination of Johan Cooper, widow, taken before the said Justices, May 9. 1645.
THis Examinant saith, [25] that she hath been a witch about twenty years, and hath three Familiars, two like Mouses, and the third like a Frog: The names of the two like Mouses, are Jack, and the other Prickeare, and the name of the third like a Frog, is Frog: And this Examinant saith, that she sent one of her said Imps to kill a child of one Thomas Woodward, which her said Imp did kill within a fortnight after: And this Examinant saith, that she did send her said Imp called Frog, to kill two of John Cartwrights i will∣drone, of Much-Holland in the County of Essex aforesaid, which said Imp did kill the said two children within a fortnight or three weeks after: And this Examinant saith further, that at another time she sent her said Imp Frog, to destroy the wife of one George Parby of Much-Holland aforesaid, which did kill her within three days after.


The Examination of Anne Cate, alias Maidenhead, of Much-Holland, in the County aforesaid, taken before the said Justices the 9th day of May, 1645.
THis Examinant saith, [26] that she hath four Familiars, which she had from her mother, about two and twenty years since; and that the names of the said Imps are James, Prickeare, Robin, and Sparrow: and that three of these Imps are like Mouses, and the fourth like a Sparrow, which she called Sparrow: And this Exam∣nant saith, that to whomsoever she sent the said Imp called Spar∣row, it killed them presently; and that first of all she sent one of her three Imps like mouses, to nip the knee of one Robert Freeman,
of Little-Clacton, in the County of Essex aforesaid, whom the said Imp did so lame, that the said Robert dyed on that lameness within half a year after: And this Examinant saith, that she sent her said Imp Prickeare to kill the daughter of John Rawlins of Much-Holland aforesaid, which died accordingly within a short time after; and that she sent her said Imp Prickeare to the house of one John Tillet, which did suddenly kill the said Tillet: And this Examinant saith, that she sent her said Imp Sparrow, to kill the child of one George Parby of Much-Holland aforesaid, which child the said Imp did presently kill; and that the offence this Exam∣nant took against the said George Parby to kill his said child, was, because the wife of the said Parby denied to give this Examinant a pint of Milk: And this Examinant further saith, that she sent her said Imp Sparrow to the house of Samuel Ray, which in a very short time did kill the wife of the said Samuel; and that the cause of this Examinants malice against the said woman was, because she refused to pay to this Exam∣nant two pence which she challenged to be due to her; And that afterwards her said Imp Sparrow killed the said child of the said Samuel Ray: And this Examinant confesses, that as soon as she had received the said four Imps from her said mo∣there, the said Imps spake to this Examinant, and told her, she must deny God and Christ, which this Examinant did then assent unto.

The testimony of Sir Thomas Bows, Knight, which he spake upon the Bench, concerning the aforesaid Anne West, she being then at the Bar upon her trial.
THat a very honest man of Mannintree, [27] whom he knew would not speak an untruth, affirmed unto him, that very early one morning as he passed by the said Anne Wests door, about four a clock, it being a moon-light night, and perceiving her door to be open so early in the morning, looked into the house, and present∣lie there came three or four little things in the shape of black rab∣bits, leaping and skipping about him, who having a good stick in his hand, struck at them, thinking to kill them, but could not, but

at last caught one of them in his hand, and holding it by the body, of it, he beat the head of it against his stick, intending to beat out the brains of it; but when he could not kill it that way, he took the body of it in one hand, and the head of it in another, and in∣devoured to wring off the head; and as he wrung and stretched the neck of it, it came out between his hands like a lock of wool; yet he would not give over his intended purpose, but knowing of a Spring not far off, he went to drown it; but still as he went he fell down, and could not go but down he fell again, so that he at last crept upon his hands and knees till he came at the water, and holding it fast in his hand, he put his hand down into the water up to his elbow, and held it under water a good, space, till he conceived it was drowned, and then letting go his hand, it sprung out of the water up into the air, and so vanished away: and then coming back to the said Anne Wests door, he saw her standing there in her smock, and asked her why she did set her Imps to molest and trouble him? to whom she made an∣swer, that they were not sent to trouble him, but were sent out as Scouts upon another design.
    FINIS.


[a] As one them witnessed in open Court, Re∣becca West
[b] Angeli bone non possunt peccare confer∣matiper grati∣am, Angeli mali per mali∣tiam obstinati non possunt benè velle.
[c] 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉q d. 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 peri∣tus ex 〈 in non-Latin alphabet 〉 disco scio, di∣veto. Vide Lexic. Peso∣ris, 157.
[d] See Deuteronomy. 8.14, 15.
[e] Diabolus Dei∣aemulus, quo se fallacy simile∣tudine insinuate in animos simon∣plicium: Calv. lib. 1. Instead. cap. 8. Sect. 2.
[f] Naturaest or∣dinaria Dei potestas.
[g] Generatio non est nisi in tempore id{que} apparata ma∣teria per ante∣cessionem mu∣tationis, &c. Scale. de subt. exercit. Sect. 6
[8] Executed at Chelmesford.
[9] Executed at Chelmesford.
[10] Executed at Chelmesford.
[11] Executed at Mannyntree.
[12] Found by the grand Jury, but acquitted by the Jury of life and death.
[13] This Anne West was exe∣cuted at Man∣nyntree the first of Au∣gust. 1645.
[14] Executed at Mannintree the 〈◊〉 of August.
[15] Condemned, but reprieved.
[16] Condemned and dyed by the way to execution.
[17] Executed at Mannyutree, Aug. 1. 1645.
[18] Executed at Chelmesford.
[19] Executed at Chelmesford.
[20] Died in the Gaol.
[21] Executed at Chelmesford.
[22] Executed at Chelmesford.
[23] Executed at Chelmesford.
[24] Executed at Chelmesford, and the first that was are∣reigned.
[25] Died in the Gaol.
[26] Executed at Chelmesford.
[27] One Goff of Mannintree, a Glover.