A RELATION OF THE DIABOLICAL PRACTICES Of above Twenty WIZARDS and WITCHES Of the Sheriffdom of Renfrew in the Kingdom of Scotland. CONTAINED, In their Trials, Examinations, and Confessions; And for which several of them have been Executed this Present Year, 1697.

LONDON, Printed for Hugh Newman at the Grasshopper in the Poultry.

To Sir T. M.
SIR,
ACcording to your Request, I send you Enclosed the Proceedings of the Commissioners appointed by the Lords of His Majestys most Honourable Privy Council, for enquiring into the Witches and Witchcrafts in the Shiriffdome of Renfrew, of which I have had Opportunity of knowing more than many others, as having been with the Commissioners on the Trials; And shall add nothing here, save what passed at the first Diet of the Trial, which was at Paislaw, where were Met of the Commissioners, my Lord Blantyre, my Lord Halcraig, Sir Iohn Maxwell of Polock, Mr. Francis Montgomery, Blackhall, Duchall, with several others, to the Number of Eleven. There was Deputed in the room of the King's Advocate, Three Advocates, viz. Mr. John Menzies, Mr. Grant and Mr. Stuart. The Panels being 21 in number, were frequently called to see if they could be brought to Confession; They were Confronted with Bargarens Daughter, and the three little Confessors, Elizabeth Anderson, and the two Lindsays. But they still denied all: which put the Court to Cull out 7 of them, against whom Threatenings, and some Malifice following could be proven. These were Margaret Lang, in Cartinpan, a Woman Famous for Religion, ever since the 60 year of God, and really a Person of extraordinary Gravity and Wisdom; I know not whether to call it Natural or Diabolical; but I have never heard a Woman speak so Gravely, Pertinently, and Religiously both to the Ministers and Judges then she did. The other were Katherine Campbell, Agnes Nasmith, John and James Lindsays, Agnes Fostur, and Margaret Fulton: This Kate Cambell is a young Well-favour'd Lass, 20 years of Age; but the rest most part Old, both Men and Women.

The Commissioners, after their first Assay to have them confess, before they brought them to a Formal Trial, would have them Tried by Pricking, which really to me seems strange, for there was not any of them, save Margaret Fulton, but Marks were found on them, which were altogether Insensible, That a Needle of 3 Inches length was frequently put in without their Knowledge, nor would any blood come from these places, and tho many, especially Doctors, ridiculed these as Stories, yet after we called Dr. Bisbin and Baird, and let them see a Needle

of a great length put into the top of one of the Vertibrae of the Back, and one into Margaret Lang, a handbreadth beneath her Ribs in the Region of the Lower Belly, they both thought it wonderful, being in a place where, in another Woman, the Needle could not but pierce the Guts: All the other 14 were also pricked and marks found in most of them. But I was most concerned for Martha Semple Daughter to Margaret Lang, who was most exactly searched twice, yet no mark found; tho the pricker mist not to search the very Soles of her Feet and other more Secret Places, for when there was any difficulty to find the mark they did quite uncloath them, but then it was in a Room, and not publicly, before one or two of the Justices, a Minister, one of the Advocatrs, and the Clark, my Lord Halcraig and I were only present with Martha; but really she is as well Favoured and Gentile a Lass as you'll look on, and about 17 or 18 years of Age, I took up Mr. Wily to her to see if he could bring her to any Confession, he spoke long to her but she denied all notwithstanding of what you see in the Encloased paper, but she was the only person amongst them all that ever I saw Weep.
They were at last on the 15th. of April to have been brought to their Trial, after 3 or 4 days trifling with them by pricking, and to bring some of them to Confession, but just as the Assize was constitute they moved to have a little more time to provide themselves Advocates, which the Justices yielded to, and adjourned to the 2d. Tuesday of May, and in this Interval the two Brothers did Confess, and upon Examination said the same things that the two Lindsays and Anderson had declared, as you have it in the within Paper. Another Man also confessed, But the Devil Strangled him in Prison, for he was found fitting in a Chair with a Cord about his Neck but slack and tied to no thing. After the Adjournment the Judges met again, and having Sufficient Evidence of several Mallefices done by each of the Seven above-named, with the Testimonies of the five Confessing Witches, all concurring in the same Acts, Sentenced them to be burned the 10th. of June, which was accordingly Executed. The other 14 being Respited till the Kings Advocates Pleasure, among whom is one Morrison Wife to Francis Duncan in Greenock called in the paper the Devils Gentlewife Antiochia, on whom many marks are found; of which you'll receive further Information by the Incloas'd to which I referr you, and am, Sir,

Your much obliged Humble Servant, T. P.

A NARRATIVE Of the RECOGNITION Taken by the Commissioners, Appointed by the Lords of His Majesties Privy-Council, for Enquiring into the Witchcrafts, and Witches, in the Shirrifdom of Renfrew; with Relation to the Afflicted Case of Christian Shaw, Daughter to the Lord of Bargarren. At the Place of Bargarren, Feb. 5. 1697. Present, the Lord Blantyre, &c.
THE said Christian Shaw, being Confronted with one Iames Lindsay (whom Elizabeth Anderson, one of the Confessing Witches Under-written Declared, Was one of the said Christians Troublers in her Fits) Did, upon
Touching the said Iames, take a very Violent Fit, Leaping, Starting and Staring, with such a Stiffning of all her Joints, that it was hard for the Assistants to keep her from Falling, and, at last, fell, as quite Dead, and Senseless, for some time; and, after Recovery, being Confronted with one Catherine Campbell, who being once Servant to her Father, for a Mis-representation of her to her Mistress, Cursed her; and is the Aledg'd Instrument of all the said Christian her Trouble. The said Katherine being by the said Commissioners Interrogate on several Points, in the Hearing of the said Christian, she Denied all, and particularly her Accession to the said Christian her Trouble, or the Rise thereof. But the Child still Charging her, Conjured her to tell the Commissioners, Why she would never Pray, That God would deliver her from that Ill, and Restore her well again. Katherine did not disown her Refusal, but shifted about for frivolous Excuses which the Commissioners bearing home on her, as a Great Argument of her Guilt; and finding she could hardly evade the Force of it, Katherine offers to run at the Child (they being then at some distance from one another) and the Child did all she could to shun her Touch. Katherine Complained; saying, Now I would Pray for her, but she will not let me. But the Child being forced to suffer her Touch by the Bystanders, the most Unwillingly, and with great Fear, she immediately after fell down, in a most Violent Fit, as before, on Iames Lindsay's Touch: But thereupon Katherines Tongue was loosed, and she said, The Lord Bless her, The Lord Deliver her; which nothing could Oblige her to do before: And the Child her self declared, after that Fit, and Katherines Prayer, she now found her self free of all Fear to Touch the said Katherine, or any other of her Tormentors.
The Commissioners were then Earnest with Katherine, to tell why she would, or could not Pray before she Touched the Child? But, to this, she could give no Satisfactory Answer.

Afterwards the Commissioners called a Young Damsel, Named Elizabeth Anderson, whom they found a very Useful Person in the said Enquiry, as being many times admitted by her
Father, and other Friends, to their Meetings with the Devil, as her Confession hereto Subjoined does Evidence, to which you are Referred. As also the Commissioners having Examined Christian Shaw, about the Persons Represented to her as her Tormentors in those Fits; and finding her Testimony Confirmed by Elizabeth Anderson her Confession, with relation to many of the Persons Accused by Christian. The Commissioners, on that Evidence, Ordered them all to Prison, (viz.) Alexander Anderson, Father to the said Elizabeth, Agnes Nasmith, Iohn Lindsay in Barrcloch, Iohn Lindsay in Formachin, Iames Lindsay his Brother, Agnes Foster, Margaret Fulton, and the said Katherine Campbell, where they are to lie till farther Orders. But the said Christian Shaw knows and remembers another Person, whom she declares she has not the Power to Name: And she has many times attempted it, but is still seized with Fits when she Assays to Express it; She came, at last, to say, for her first Name, Margaret, or Pinched Margaret (a Name given her by the Devil, from a Pinched Cross-Cloath, ordinarily worn on her Brow) But cannot express her Patronimick, or Surname. The Commissioners were so concerned at this, that they urged her to Write it, which being loath to try for fear of Torture, she nevertheless essayed it; And beginning to Write other Names, she was desired to try that too, but could Write no more save Margaret, and the Letter L. of her Surname, being presently taken with a most Violent Fit, the Pen falling out of her hand, and she falling Dead, as above, with Groans, heavier and sorer then ordinary. Within a while the Commissioners having cause her to take a little of a Julep, after her Recovery, some Ministers standing by, Presented her with a Bible, desiring her to Read a Passage in it, which they pointed to her; but no sooner had she cast her eyes on the Book, but instead of Reading, she fell to Sing a very Melodious Tune, such as is used in Opera's; and, within a little while after fell in her Fits again, and even then the Music ceased not, tho she appeared as one dead, with her Mouth open, but neither her Lips nor Tongue stirring, She remained long in the Fit, till one of the Commissioners,

desired the Book might be Closed; which done, she Immediately came to her Self; and being Asked what she meant by Singing, when she was desired to Read, she was not sensible she had Sung, and declared she did not remember it.

Bargarren-Place. Fibre. 5. 1697.
ELizabeth Anderson, Daughter to Alexander Anderson, Aged 17 years, or thereby, Declared that about 20 days ago, she was Invited by her Father, to go along with him to Bargarrin's Yard, about Twelve a Clock in the Day, who went both together; and having come there, they met with an Black Man, who had an Bonnet on his Head, and a Band about his Neck, whom her Father, and Agnes Nasmith, then present, told her, He was the Devil And that there was in Company with that Black Man, whom she thought was the Devil, the Persons following; viz. the said Alexander Anderson her Father, Agnes Nasmith in Park of Erskin, Iohn Lindsay in Formaken, called, The Bishop, Iames Lindsay his Brother, Margaret Fulton, Spouse to Robert Wallace in Kilpatrick, and Sister to the Grandmother of the said Elizabeth, who Dyed in Paisley Tolbooth, Accused of Witchcraft above half an Year since, or thereby. And that their Discourse was at that time concerning Christian Shaw, Daughter to the Lord of Bargarren, who was then not well, and whose Life they all promised to take away by Stopping of her Breath; and that she saw the Devil several times before in her Fathers House, in Company with her Father, and several others. And that the Devil, with the Company foresaid Danced all in the said Yard the time foresaid. And that her Father Discharged her to tell any thing she saw, or else she would be Torn
in pieces; And that she was more Afraid of the forsaid Persons, then she was of the Devil. And being Examined whether or no any Person in the Company foresaid Desired her to Engage in the Devil's Service? She declared, That both the Devil and her Father Invited her several times to the Devil's Service, Promising to Reward her for her pains But that she altogether refused to Engage therein: And that notwithstanding thereof, she went along to the foresaid Yard, to the said Meeting with her Father; Where she heard the Devil say, That no body would see them: At which the forsaids Persons then present did Laugh. And being asked, If she was Afraid when she saw the Devil in the Yard? She Declared, She was Feared not, because she had seen him several times before.

Elizabeth Andersons Additional Confession, who Compaired, and being Examined upon the Point of Witchcraft, Declared the Particulars following.

Renfrew, Feb. 18. 97.
THat about Seven years since or thereabouts, the ????????? Elizabeth Anderson was with the Deceased Jean Fulton, her Grandmother; and playing about the door of the House she saw an Black grim Man go into the House to her Grandmother; who abode with her a considerable space, talking with her; and afterword she came to the door, and desired the said Elizabeth Anderson to come in; and upon her incoming, desired her to take the Gentleman (as she named him) by
the Hand, and she would give her an Bony Black new Coat, which accordingly she did; which seemed to her very cold: whereupon she was afraid, and immediately he vanished and went away. About a Month after her Grandmother and she were both in the House together, when the aforesaid Gentleman appeared to them, (which the said Elizabeth then suspected to be the Devil) and he and her Grandmother fell a talking together, by rounding in others Ears, but understood not what they said; and afterword her Grandmother desired her to take the Gentleman by the hand, but she refusing, saying, It was the Devil, which her Grandmother denying, said, It was a Gentleman a Friend of hers; and she still insisting and threatening her if she would not take him by the hand, she would get none of her Clothes, but the said Elizabeth Anderson would not be persuaded to do it, but saved her self from him, saying, the Lord be between me and him, whereupon her Grandmother said, she need not fear for it was not ill thing, and upon that the Devil went away in a Flight, she knew not how; and declares, for a long time after, she was no more troubled with the said Gentleman. Till one time her Father Alexander Anderson desired her to go with him through the Country to seek their Meat; to which she replied, she need not go seek her Meat, seeing she might have Work: But her Father pressing her, she went with him, where he took her to an Muir in Kilmacolme, where were gathered together, before they came, Agnes Nasmith, Margaret Fulton, Iohn Lindsay, called Bishop, Iames Lindsay, called Curate, an Heighland Body, Katherine Campbel, an Gentlewife called by them Antiochia, Thomas Woodrous's Wife in Carslup, Margaret Lang in Cartinpan, and her Daughter, Martha Semple, John Read Smith, John Stuart and his Wife, Enable Read, Margaret Sherer, Margaret Rodger in Park, Jennet Rodger her Sister, Robert Wallace in Kilpatrick, Allason there, Thomas Birkinyers Wife in Stamne-butts, and several others whom she does not know or remember, when the aforesaid Gentleman who appeared to her formerly, came to the said Elizabeth Anderson, bidding her Renounce her Baptism, promising her if she would consent thereto, she should be better then she was then, and she would get better Meat and better Clothes, and she would
not need to beg. But (as she declared) she would not Consent to him; And he enquired of her, What brought her thither? then she replied, That she came with her Father. Whereupon the Devil and her Father went together, and talked to one another; but she knew not where-about: And declares that the cause of her meeting at that time (as she said) was about the forming of a Picture, of Mr. William Flamings Minister at Innerkeppe his Child, who at that time effected the same; the Main Actors being, her Father, Agnes Nasmith, Margaret Fulton, Isabel Cochran, and some others, who at that time put in Pins both small and great; but their Master told them they behoved to have some other thing before it could take Effect. As also she Confesses, she was present at an Meeting with that Crew, above the Town of Kilpatrick, where were present her Father, Mother, and Sister, Margaret Lang and her Daughter, Margaret Fulton, Agnes Nasmith, Margaret??? Rodger and her Sister Jennet, Margaret Sherer, Robert Wallace in Kilpatrick, with the foresaid Gentleman, whom they called their Lord; where they formed an Picture of Mr. Iohn Ritchie Minister of Kilpatrick his Child, and they all Stabed Pins in the same, both great and small; and heard the said Margaret Rodger say, stay a little till I stop an Pin in the Heart of it, which accordingly she did. And declares, she went with her Father to the Ferrie-Boat of Erskin, where he took her on his Back over the Water to Kilpatrick in a Flight. Farther Confesses, To have been present at the Drowning of Brighouse, and the Ferrier of Erskin, where was present in the Boat, the Devil, her Father and Mother, William Miller at Formakin, the Ferriers Mother-in-Law, Margaret Fulton, and some others; and there were on Erskin side of the Water John Lindsay the Bishop, Iames Lindsay, the Curate, Margaret Cochran, Tarbet, Janet Waugh, Margaret Shearer, Margaret Lang, and her Daughter, Iohn Stuart, and his Wife, the Highland Body, Catherine Campbel, and several others, with her Self; and heard them say, That they would have saved one of the Horse, but they could not get it done, unless they had saved also one of the Men which were Drounded, and which she believes was Iohn Glen,

had not his Mother-in-Law prevented it. Moreover she declares, she was present at the putting down of a Child of William Montgomries in Bargarrans Land, where were present Margaret Fulton in Kilpatrik, Agnes Nasmith, her Father Mother and Sister, Iohn and Iames Lindsays, Bishop and Curate, Margaret Lang, in Cartinpan, Jennet Waugh, Margaret Sherer, Thomas Woodrouse's Wife in Carsslup, Thomas Lindsay, Iames Lindsay his Brother, Iohn Reid Smith, and several others whom she does not know or remember, with the Black Man whom they called their Lord, about two a Clock in the Morning, where they Strangled a Child with a Sea Napkin: The Main Actors, being Agnes Nasmith and Margaret Fulton, who opened the Door of the House, and after they were entered, went to the Fire and lighted an Candles, which was blacker nor your Candles usually are, somewhat bluish; and none in the House ever stirred or wakened, and they stayed all in the House upwards of an Hour; And declares, that she heard Agnes Nasmith say, What if the People of the House awake? To which Margaret Fulton replied, You need not fear. Like as confessed, That upon Wednesday about sive Weeks since or thereby, her Father brought her out of his House with him, and come all the way with her on her foot to Bargarren out-Yeard, where they come in by an Shap in the Yard to an Meeting, where where present Agnes Nasmith, Margaret Fulton, Iohn Lindsay Bishop, Iames Lindsay Curate, Agnes Foster, the Highland Body, Janet Waugh, Margaret Sheerer in Eskingram, Margaret Lang, Margaret Cunningham Spouse to Thomas Woodrow in Carsslap, Iohn Read, Smith, Iohn Steward and his Wife, Thomas Birkinyers Wife, Thomas Lindsay, James Lindsay his Brother, and Alexander Anderson, the Declarant, her Father; Where was also present the Devil, who had on an Black Coat, an Blew Bonnet, an Blew Band, who Played on a Pipe, and they all Danced. At which Meeting they were Contriving and Consulting with the foresaid Black Man, whom they called their Lord, about the Destroying of Christian Shaw, Daughter to the Lord of Bargarren; where some of them were for Stabbing her with a Touck; particularly, Agnes Nasmith,
Margaret Fulton, Margaret Rodger, Thomas Woodrouse Wife, Margaret Sheerer, and others, were for Hanging her with a Cord, particularly the Highland Body, John Read, and his Daughter; and others for Stopping her Breath, and Choking her, and particularly Janet Waugh, John Lindsay Bishop, James Lindsay his Brother, and the Gentle Wife, whom they called Antiochia, as also Declared that she heard some of them say, That if ever they should have a Meeting again, they should have her out of the House and destroy her: But fearing they would be taken before they should have an other Meeting, their Lord, as they called him, gave them an place of an Unchristned Bairns Liver to eat, except her, and the other Two, who has Confessed, viz. James and Thomas Lindsayes, telling them, that though they were Apprehended, they should never Confess, do to them what they would. And farther declares, That several of them were feared, That the said Elizabeth Anderson should Confess and tell of them, in regard she had done it formerly. They threatened her, if she did, They would Tear her all in pieces, if ever they got their hands on her, and particularly Margaret Lang, who Threatened her most. And farther declares, that against the next Meeting, they intended, if they were not Apprehended, To Form the said Christian Shaws Picture, and then they would get a get of her; And when the Meeting was ended, which continued upwards of Two hours, or thereby, they went all away in a Flight, except the said Elizabeth Anderson, who went home on her foot. Farther Confesses, That one Night her Father raised her out of her Bed, and took her to the Ferry-Boat of Erskin, where he took her on his Back, and, in a Flight, carried her over the Water, and went from that both together to Dunbarton, to the Yard of Mr. John Hardy, Minister there, where were present Agnes Nasmith, Margaret Fulton, Robert Wallace her Husband, Margaret Lang, and her Daughter Martha Semple, Alexander Anderson, Thomas Woodrous Wife, James Lindsay, Thomas Lindsay his Brother, Mc. Killops, Mother-in-Law to John Glen the Ferrier, Katherine Campbell, the Highland Body, John Lindsay Bishop, James Lindsay Curate, William Miller in Formakin, the Gentlewoman called by the Crew Antiochia, and the foresaid Black Man, whom they called their Lord; where the foresaid John Lindsay Bishop, Played on a Pipe, and all Danced; at which Meeting they Formed the Picture of the said Mr. John Hardy, which was made of Bees-Wax, Hair, and other Materials, and Dabbed it full of Pins small and Great, and thereafter put it amongst Water and Ale Mixed, and then put it on a Spit, which Agnes Nasmith and others told her, they Roasted at the Fire, the Main Actors were, the said Agnes Nasmith, and Margaret Fulton, who made the Same Picture, and when they had done they went all away in a Flight, except her Father, and her self, who come upon their Feet to the Ferry again, and carried her over, in a Flight as foresaids: And Declares, That the foresaid Agnes Nasmith, got the Picture in Custody when they parted; And also Declares, That the Words that her Father spoke, when he took her on his Back, and Flew with her, were Mount and Fly; And also Declares, That no Person promised her any good Deed, or Reward, to make the said Confession.

Feb. 18. 97.
JAmes Lindsay being examined Confesses as follows, (Aged 14 years, or thereby,) That one day he met with the Deceased Jean Fulton his Grandmother at her House in Inchannen, where she took from him a little Round Cap and a Plack, But being loath to part with the same, required them from her again; which she refusing, he called her an old Witch and run away; upon which she followed him and cried, that she would meet him another time with an Ill turn: about
8 days thereafter, as he was begging thorough the Country near to the Town of Inchannen, he met again with his Grandmother at the Back of the yard of that House at the head of the Casey, where there appeared to him an Black Grim Man, with black Clothes, an black Hat, and blew Band; his Grandmother desiring him to take the Gentleman by the Hand, (as she termed him) who accordingly did as he was desired, whose hand seemed to the said Iames to be exceeding cold, and gript him very straightly; whereupon the said Gentleman enquired at him, If he would serve him, and he would give him a Bonny black Coat and a black Hat, and several other things? to which he replied, yes I'll do it; and continuing there a little time they parted, when the said Gentleman (which he knew thereafter to be the Devil) and his Grandmother went away together from him, but he knows not how. This the said Iames Lindsay declares was the first time that ever he saw the Devil, or engaged with him; and thereafter confesses he was frequently at Meetings with him and others, and particularly the Meetings after specified, besides many others: Viz. That about 5 Weeks before Jennet Kerr was Apprehended he went with her to a Muir in Kilmalcolme Parish upon a Hill to a Meeting there about 4 a Clock in the afternoon, where were present whom he knew (besides several others whom he does not know or remember:) The said Jennet Kerr, Jennet Woodrow, Margaret Alexander, Margaret Cockran, Tarbett, Alexander Anderson, and his Wife; Iohn Lindsay Bishop, Agnes Nesmith, Iohn Lindsay in Barclough, Jennet Waugh, Margaret Sheerer, William Miller in Formaken, Margaret Lang in Carterpan, Martha Semple her Daughter; Kat, Ferrier at Craigtownburne, Iohn Reid, Iohn Stuart and his Wife; Patrick Lindsay in Formakin, Katherine Campbell, an Highland Body, called by the Crew their Drudge; and an White-haird Man which he says was Iames Lindsay Curate, who played upon a Fiddle to them and they all Danced with the first Gentleman, whom they called their Lord, who came to the said Iohn Lindsay, and took him by the Hand and forbad him to tell, at which time they were contriving about the Drowning of Brighouse,

when he should come over the Ferry of Erskin, (the foresaid Jennet Kerr being the main Instigator) where he heard their Lord say, That if they could not get him out by the the Hairs of the Head, they would sink the Boat and all therein, and Jennet Woodrow replied, That if they could get Brighouse Drowned alone they would be content, Iohn Glenn the Farrier were saved, but Mckillops Mother-in-Law to the said Farrier (who was also present) said in regard he had put her out of the House a little while before the Meeting, she should have him Drowned also. And likewise Confesses, That at the Committing of the said Fact, the heal forenamed persons were present with several others, except the said Jennet Woodrow and Jennet Kerr, who were then at that time in Prison; and that the Devil was at the Head of the Boat, and Alexander Anderson, William Miller, the Ferriers Mother-in-Law, and Iohn Steward, and his Wife were in the middle of the Boat, and the rest of the Crew abovenam'd with himself and several others upon Erskin side of the Water.
As also Confesses, he was present at the putting down of a Child of Matthew Parks in Parkland, with the Persons abovenam'd, and several others, as Thomas Lindsay his Brother, Elizabeth Anderson, Daughter to Alexander Anderson, where was present with them an Black-haired Man, bare-headed, in an black Coat and a long blew Cravat, which was don late at Night about 12, when the whole Family were asleep except an Servant-lass, who waited on the Child, who at this time went to the Door a little, and in the Interim before she returned they put a Cord about the Child's Neck and Strangled it; the main Actors of the Fact being Margaret Fulton, and Agnes Nesmith, and when the Lass came in again to the place where the Child was, they heard her cry these words, Matthew, O Matthew! Matthew! The Bairn is Dead; whereupon they all went away.

Note, That the foresaid Elixabeth Anderson another Confessant, agrees in her Confession to this Article, that the Bairn was in the Cradle when the Fact was Committed, and that when they had don they took the Cord with them. Likes Confesses, he was present at the Strangling of a Child of VVilliam Montgomerys in Bargarrins-land, with Martha Lang in Cartanpan, Martha Semple her Daughter, Thomas Lindsay his Brother, Margaret Rodger, Alexander Anderson, and his Wife and two Daughters, Iane and the said Elizabeth Anderson, Iohn Lindsay Bishop, Iames Lindsay Curate, and Patrick Lindsay his Son; Agnes Nesmith, Jennet Lindsay in Barloch, Jennet VVaugh, Margaret Shearer, Crooked VVilliam Millar, Kath, Ferrier in Craigtown-burne, John Steuart and his Wife, Kath Campbel, and the Highland-body their Drudge, and several others, whose Names he does not know or remember; Where was present the foresaid Black-hair'd Man, nothing on him but an black Shirt, and a black Hood, called by the Crew their Lord, where they Strangled the Child with an Sea Napkin, and heard Agnes Nasmith cry draw the Lowp, and at their entering to the House Agnes Nasmith opened the door and went in, and the rest followed her to the Fire side, and lighted a Candle tending to a bluish colour, where they stayed a considerable space upwards of an hour, and during that time none of the House awakened, for he heard one of them, to wit Agnes Nasmith, say, she wold keep them from Wakening; the main Actors were the foresaid Agnes Nasmith with Alexander Anderson and another Woman whom he did not know, and who is condescended on by the other two Confessant, viz, Thomas Lindsay his Brother, and the said Elizabeth Anderson, to be Margaret Fulton in Kilpatrick. Further Confesses, That upon a VVadensday about five weeks since or thereby, he was taken on a sudden in a Flight, where he was begging near to the place of Inchannen, from that to Bargarrens Orchyeard, to a Meeting with the Crew, where were Agnes Nasmith, the foresaid Margaret Fulton, his Brother Thomas, Iohn Lindsay Bishop, Iames Lindsay Curate, the Highland Body, Janet VVaugh, Margaret Sheerer, Margaret Lang and her Daughter Martha Semple, Thomas VVoodrow's Wife in Cairslop, Iohn Reid Smith, Iohn Stewart and his Wife, Thomas Birkmire in Stainie-butts and his Wife, Alexander Anderson

and his Wife and two Daughters, an Gentle Wife called by their Lord his Wife Antiochia, and several others whom he does not know or Remember; where the Devil their Lord, as they called him, played upon a Pipe and they all danced; at which Meeting they ware advyseing and consulting the destroyeing of Christian Shaw Daughter to Bargarren, where some of them ware for distroyeing and pulling down of the House upon her, some for Choking and Stopping in Pins in her Throat, others for hanging her with a Cord, some for seeing if they could get her out of the house and destroy her. And Confesses, They all agreed to the Forming of her Picture against the nixt Meeting if they ever should have an; but fearing they should be apprehended ere that time; their Master gave them all an piece of an Unchristned bairns Liver, excepting himself and other two, viz. Thomas Lindsay his Brother, and Elizabeth Anderson, they telling them though they ware apprehended they would never Confess doe to them never so much.
Likes Confesses, Being in Bed in the house of VVilliam Killoch in Davistown late at Night he was taken out of his Bed in a Flight, where he never knew till he was in Dunbar-town, in the yard of Mr. Iohn Hardy Minister there, where were present at the Meeting of the Crew, Agnes Nasmith, Margaret Fulton, Robert VVallace, Margaret Lang, Marthew Semple, Alexander Anderson, his Wife and Daughter Elizabeth, Thomas Lindsay, his Brother who agrees to his Confession;

Mc. Killops, Mother-in-Law to John Glenn, Farrier, Kathrin Cambel, the Highland Body, John Lindsay Bishop, and Iames his Brother, Thomas VVoodrow's Wife, VVilliam Miller in Formaken an Gentle Wife, called by their Lord his Wife Antiochia, with several others whom he knows not or remembers; where the forsaid Iohn Lindsay Bishop played on a Pipe, and they all Danced, at which Meeting they framed the Picture of the salid Mr. John Hardy, and dabbed it full of Pins and great, and thereafter put it in Water and Ale mixed and then Roasted it at the Fire, the Main Actors being the said Agnes Nasmith and Margaret Fulton, who formed the same; and when they had ended their Meeting, declares

he was taken back to his Bed again in a Flight, as said is And declairs, Agnes Nasmith got the Picture in Custody when they parted. Further Confesses, he hes several times appeared to the Child (white in the foot) both in Glasgow and Bargarren, tho Invisible to Spectators, with others as Agnes Nasmith, and Alexander Anderson, the Highland Body, (in Iohn Davisons) and Margaret Lang tormenting the Child, where he declares, he and the foresaid Persons and some others were the Occasion of the foresaid Christian her putting out the Coals, Cinders, Bones, Hay, Fire, Sticks, and other trash which they put in her Mouth, intending to Choke her. And further acknowledges, That he and the foresaid Persons and others did oftimes Prick and Stab her as if it had been don by Pins, and the way and manner how he had don it was his having a Needle, which if he put in his Clothes, her Body would be pricked and Stabbed in that place where he Stabbed the Needle, and if he should put it in his Hair, that part of her Head where he put the same would be Stabbed. And further declares, He was present when the said Christian Shaw put Pins out of her Mouth, which he and the aforesaid persons and others had put in, and also at the time of his doing these Arts, the said Iames cried their Words, Help John Davison, who was also then present; and also when the Minister began to pray in Bargarrens House, the Devil, he and the rest immediately went away. And also declares, There was no Person promised him any Reward for making the foresaid Confession, and declares he cannot Write. And also declares, That the Devil and the rest of the Crew called Iohn Lindsay Bishop, The Post.
THomas Lindsay declares, That one Night lying in Bed in his Grandmothers House Jane Fulton, late at Night there came in a Black Man, with black Clothes, an blew Band and black Hat, into his Grandmothers, but he being asleep at the time, she awakened him, desiring him to take the Gentleman by the hand, and she would give him a Black Coat, which accordingly he did, whose

Hand seemed to be very Cold, and enquired at him, If he would serve him, and be his Man, and he would give him a Red Coat, which he said he would do??? And thereafter he declares, The Gentleman, which he knew thereafter to be the Devil, went out the Broad side of the House: And Declares farther, That when he gave his Consent to serve the Devil, he Nipped him in the Neck, which continued Sore Ten days space. Thereafter, one day, coming by his Grandmothers House (she then being dead) as he thought, she Appeared to him, Clapping his Head, Desiring him to be a good Servant to the Gentleman to whom she had Gifted him, and forbidding him to Reveal it. And thereafter she Evanisht out of his Sight. Likes Confesses, one Night Lying in Bed in the House of Robert Shaw in Barscobe Hill, late at Night, he was Awakened out of his Sleep, and taken away in a Flight, to the House of one Matthew Park in Parkland, to the Murdering of a Child of his; where were present, Jennet Kerr, Alexander Anderson, and his Wife, and Daughter Elizabeth; John Lindsay Bishop, and James Lindsay Curate, Agnes Nesmith, Margaret Fulton, John Lindsay in Barloch, Janet Waugh, Margaret Sherer, Crooked William Miller, Margaret Lang, her Daughter Martha Semple, Katherine Ferrier, John Reid, John Stuart, Anaple Reid his Wife, Katherine Campbell, the Highland Body, James Lindsay his own Brother, Jane Park in Paisley, Ross, her Mother, and the said Gentleman, whom they called their Lord; where they Strangled the Child with an Small Cord, while the whole Family were Asleep, except a Lass who Waited on the Child, who at that time went to the Door; and before she returned, Jennett Kerr, and Margaret Sherer, put the Cord about the Childes Neck, and Strangled it, and after they had done, they all went away in a Flight: And Declairs, he was brought to his Bed in the same manner again. As also Confesses, another Night being in Bed in the House of Walter Alexander of Ersken Kirk, he was taken away in a Flight to a Meeting at the House of William Montgomry in Bargarrens Land, with the Crew, where
they Strangled his Child about two a Cloak in the Morning, being there present Margaret Fulton, Agnes Nesmith, Iames Lindsay his Brother, Alexander Anderson, and his Wife and two Daughters; Iohn Lindsay Bishop, James Lindsay Curate, Margaret Lang and her Daughter, Janet Waugh, Margaret Shearer, Thomas Woodrow's Wife in Cousslop, Kathrin Campbel, the Highland Body, and several others, with the forsaid Gentleman whom they called their Lord; the Main Actors being Agnes Nesmith and Margaret Fulton, who opened the door of the House, and when they were entered the House went to the Fires side, and lighted a Candle which was blacker then other Candle but somewhat bluish; and none of the house ever stirred or awaked, and heard the said Agnes Nesmith, say, What if the People of the House awaked? to which Fulton replied you need not fear, which was in the mean time whilst they Strangled the Child with an sprekled Sea-Napkin, and after committing of the Fact they all went away, the said Thomas was brought in a flight to his Bed again.
Likes Confesses, About five Weeks since or thereby, coming by Finlastown about Twelve a Cloak midd day, was taken in a sudden Flight, when he never knew, till he was in Bargarrins Ortchyeard, where were present Margaret Fulton, John and James Lindsay Bishop and Curate, the Highland Body, Janet VVaugh, Margaret Shearer, Margaret Lang and her Daughter, Thomas VVoodrow's Wife, John Reid Smith, John Steuart and his Wife, the Gentle Wife called by the Crew Antiochia, Thomas Birkmyres Wife, James Lindsay his own Brother, Alexander Anderson his Wife and two Daughters, John Lindsay in Barloch, and the foresaid Gentleman whom they called their Lord, who played on a Pipe and they all Danced, and after the merry fit they fell a consulting about the destroying of Christian Shaw Daughter to Bargarrin, where some of them were for Stabbing her with Pins, some for Stabbing with a Tuck, some for hanging her with a Cord, some for getting her out of the House to destroy her, but declares he heard them all consent to the making of her Picture against the next time, but fearing they should be apprehended ere the time. Their Lord gave them an peace of an Uncrissened bairns Liver, except himself his Brother and Elizabeth Anderson; And he told them tho they were apprehended they should never confess, after the eating of that, do to them never so much. And after the Meeting was ended, which continued about two hours space the said Thomas Lindsay was carried back to the very same place from which he was taken away.

THE Copy of a Letter SENT, From Bargarrens Lady to him, being then at Ranfren, dated Fibre. 18. 1697.
My Dear,
I Thought it fit to give you an Account of Christians Condition, this day about two a Clock in the Afternoon she said she saw the Devil in likness of a Man, she seemed to be somewhat feared, and I desired her to say The Lord Rebuke thee Satan, but the use of her Tongue was taken from her, yet recovering it in a short space she asayed to speak, but was presently seized with a Fit, and when that was over she went about the Room deaf and blind as you your self have seen her before, but still speaking, as to a Bumbee, said, With the Lords Strength thou shalt not put Straw nor Sticks into my Mouth, holding her hand fast on her Mouth all the while, then walking a little faster

she cried out, the Bumbee is Stinging me, and sitting down looked on her Leg where was the Impression, very deep of finger Nails. The Devil appeared to her again in the Bed like a Gentleman, she standing at the Bed-side reasoned with him after this manner; Thou thinks to make me a Witch but through God's Strength thou shalt never be the better; I charge thee in the Name of God to be gon and thy Papers too, for I will have non of them, I will not fear thy ill, stand here see if thou dare come one stop nearer me: I think thou art feareder for me then I for thee; then turning she went up and down the Room as before, and again was bitten with Teeth in the hands very deep, and Impressed with Nails of Fingers more then twenty four times, which made her cry aloud every time she received them, and showing the place where she was hurt by getting her hand upon it; but we neither saw nor heard any thing about her. She continued in this Fit from two a Clock till past five at night, she said in the Fit Margaret Lang had given orders to Torment her, so by the Lass you will get a fuller account; till meeting; I remain
Your, &c. Sic Subscribitur, Christian M'gilchrist.
    FINIS.