The Examination and Confession of certain Witches at Chensforde in the County of Essex, before the Queens majesties Judges, the xxvi. day of July ANNO. 1566, at the Assise holden there as then, and one of them put to death for the same offence, as their examination declares more at large.


The Epistle to the Reader.
GOD which of his singular goodness (as the sage philosopher Harms hath plainly described) to each of his creatures hath added a reasonable soul, which is the chief and most excellent treasure that any man can be endued withal: Let vs then consider gods inerplycable benefits always of his own free will (and not of our deserts) given and bestowed upon vs, and sith that the soul of man is of great estimation in his fatherly presence, let vs endeavour our selves to walk, that by continual exercise of virtuous and wholesome documēts, I mean not only by hearing of the sincere verity: neither yet by much talking of the same to hear, and not to bear away is altogether frivolous: To babble and prate much of Christ and his gospel (as though we would be counted ghostly gospellers) & to want the chefest thing, I mean the fruit or well governed conversation, and to be clean void of integrity, and cleanesse of life, in my judgment and as the lacred scripture verifies, is nothing but folly: (example) A tree that is altogether barren, and at



the required time destitute of fruit having a trim show of leaves, deserves to be hewed down and made ete for the fire: so we wanting fruit required, but having plenty of leaves be of like effect, and for all the outward show that we have, we shall in like wase be cut down & thrown into the fire prepared for the devil and his angles, from which (gentell reader) God defend vs all, and give vs such grace that we may benceforthe walk in our vocation, that god in al our works may be unfeignedly glorified, and by thadmonitiō of this little book learn in such sort to keep our souls, by fixed and assured faith in Christ, from the stinking puddle of filthy pollution, then shall we escape that horrible place prepared for the ungodly and wykked livers, & as profitable servants be counted apt members to dwell with our Saviour Christ above the clouds in his heavenly kingdom, to the which god for his me•cies sake bring vs all. Amen.

The Preface.
My trembling hand for fear doth
My dolor doth exceed: (quake,
My joys decrease to tēder tears
my sports are turned in dede.
The greedy gulfs of grisly grief,
so gripe my restless heart:
ye my pore pen can scantly show,
the passions of my sinarte.
Draw ne'er you patrones with your babes,
come view this hapless hap:
In flushing fluddes of coming tears
your tender beauties lap.
Ye matrons mild draw ne'er in haste,
this irksome act behold:
Then Nature shall ber rueful plaints,
by you her Nymphs unfold.
Eche wight in whom the skilful skill,
of natures art is shown:
Surrender may them selves to me,
this cruel act to moan.
The heaps of grief so huge are,
that sobbees must needs abound:
Yea shrilly shrickes to posse the skies,
your voices shall redound.
The dolor now so doubtful is,
that scant my warbling pen:
Can forth express the sense thereof,
unto the sons of men.
Again the bluberinge tears which glide,
from my moore pincked eyes:
Besmeared my face that scarce I can,
my inward griefs surprise.
One while I blsuhe for shame to show,
these pageants worthy blame:
Some other time my thoughes me let,
these bluddy facts to name.

Thus as I stay in doubt alas,
my dompes are passing great:
My clogged joints benomd with fear,
have got Dame sorrows seat
Her massy mace with direful stroke,
hath stroke my members all:
But these Periphrases I leave,
and will discourse my thrall.
Which to conceive each reader will,
well way I do not doubt:
Ofiate in Chenceforde town dear friends,
before the noble route.
Of Judges just placed in that seat,
by our most famous Queen:
Judgment to give as justice leads
as daily well is scene.
The Sesrious there by order kept,
offenders to correct:
Three feminine dames attached were,
whom Satan had infect.
With Belials sprite whose •Sorcery did,
the simple so moiest:
That when they would with present death.
they were full sore oppressed.
Here after shall succeed the acts,
that they them selves have wrought:
And they them selves confessed have,
to judgment being brought.
Which thing when thou haste viewed well,
good Reader do you pray:
to God the Lord that he from vs,
Make witches take away.
aping thou wilt,
well accept:
when thou haste heard,





An exbortacion to all faithful men willing them to set Gods fear before their eyes and Sedans practises utterly to despise annexed to the same, profitable for every Christian man to read and to embrace.
BEhold these acts & scan thē well,
behold their perverse way:
these left ye lord these did his truth
which should have ben their stay
In them such power satan had,
that Christ they did refuse:
his precious blud shed thē to save
to much they did abuse.
Sin death and hell did spread their flag,
in them they bare the sway:
His word was irksome to their hearts,
they walked far astray.
What tender heart would god renounce,
who would his gospel leave:
What godly one would hate his lord,
and unto Satan cleave.
What wight would gods good benefits,
so lightly now esteem:
Which sent his Christ into the world,
from hell vs to redeem.
Who by his might did vanquish sin,
and laid Satan warn:
By whose dere death eternal life,
his flock shall surely taste.
His love to vs his creatures did,
in ample wise exceed:

When by the pains of painful death,
to save vs he decrede.
What durat heart or selly breast,
could find Christ to repay:
With such contempt as did these ymphes,
which here behold ye may.
What matrons art would hyde the skill,
of Nature that meke dame:
And toil by such ungodly arts,
to extmquishe clean the same.
I mean if God should send increase,
and multiply her sede:
Would she frequent it to destroy,
by wicked means in dede.
I think no tender heart could find,
an infants blood to spill:
Nor yet no spoused wife I think,
her husband dere would kill
Sith that by witchcraft witches use,
all evils to sequest:
Let such as fear the living God,
their practises detest.
Sith whoredom in the same I say,
her force doth plainly show:
Let every wight he same abhor,
and escape infernal wo.
Sith this art doth such i'll contain,
as swearinges manifold:
Let faithful hearts forsake the same,
and fix on Christ their hold.
Sith by that practise vile ere friends,
man slaughter put in re:
Let vs contemn those godless acts,
and lead a life most pure.
Sith Christ the rock of lastinge life,
must clean renounced be:


And Satan as the governor,
must have the dignity.
What cursed state shall they abide▪
Which Christ their guide refuse:
And study still the devils mind,
by practise still to use.
Did Christ in vain bestow his blood,
to save our souls from hell:
Did Christ in vain prepare the heavens,
for his elect to dwell.
Not so I judge, why should we then,
his law and word contemn:
The scripture doth rebellious folk,
everlastingly condemn.
I mean such as his word detest,
his law condemns plain:
To taste with him whom they do serve,
in hell eternal payne.
Such as do in finn delight.
frequenting mischief styll:
Be Sedans own, for Iesus Christ,
for his deny them will.
Sith Christ in heaven will them forsake,
which him in earth deny:
Let vs henceforth learn so to walk,
his name to magnify.
Let vs that swearers be in dede,
our swearing clean refrain:
So shall we escape the greedy gulphes,
of hell and burning payne.
Let whoremongers which whoredom use,
cast clean away the same:
And pardon crave, for Christ is pressed,
for to forgive the blame.
Let such men as delight in sin,
forsake their sinful ways:

And study now that all your acts,
may tend the Lord to praise.
Let filthy swyntsthe dronkardes now,
abhorred in Gods slight:
Leave of their quaffing in excess,
in modesty delight.
Then shall Gods arms be opened wide,
vs wretches to embrace:
And with his saints in his kingedome,
he will vs surely place.
To which kingedome for Christ's sake,
vouchsafe thy ocke to bring:
That we as thy elects dear God,
to thee may praises singe.
    Finis.

{quod} Iohn Phillips


The examination of them with their confession before Doctor Cole and master Foscue at the same Sis verhatum as ne'er as could be gathered, and first of Elizabeth Frauncis who said as here follows.
First the learned this art of witchcraft at the age of .xii. years of her grandmother whose name was mother Eve of Hatfield Peuerell disseased.
Item when she taught it her, she counselled her to renounce GOD and his word, and to give of her blood to Satan (as she termed it) which she delivered her in the likeness of a white spotted Cat, and taught her to feed the

said Cat with bread and milk and she did so, also she taught her to cal it by the name of Satan and to keep it in a basket.
When this mother Eve had given her the Cat Satan, then this Elizabeth desired first of the said Cat (calling it Satan) that she might be rich and to have goods, and he promised her she should, asking her what she would have, and she said sheep (•or this Cat spake to her as she confessed in a strange hollow voice, (but such as she understood by use) & this Cat forthwith brought sheep into her pasture to the nūber of .xviii

black and white, which continued with her for a time, but in the end did all wear away she knew not howe.
Item when she had gotten these sheep, she desired to have on Andrew Boils to her husband, which was a man of some wealth, and the cat did promise she should, but that he said she must first consent that t•is Andrew should abuse her, and she so did.

And after when this Andrew had thus abused her he would not mary her, wherefore she willed Satan to waste his goods, which he forthwith did, and yet not being contented with this, she wild him to touch his body, which he forthewith did whereof he died.

Item that every time that he did any thing for her, she said that he required a drop of blood, which she gave him by pricking herself, sometime in one place & then in an other,
and where she pricked her self there remained a red spot, which was still to be scene.
Item whē this Andrew was dead, she douting her self with child willed satan to destroy it, and he bad her take a certain herb and drink it which she did, and destroyed the child forthwith.

Item when she desired an other husband, he promised her an other, naming this Frauncis whom she now hath, but said he is not so rich as the other, willing her to consent unto that Frauncis in fornication which she did, and thereof conceived a daughter that was borne within a quarter of a year after they were married.

After they were married they lived not so quietly as she desired, being stirred (as she said) to much unquietness and moved to swearing and cursing, wherefore she willed satan her

Cat to kill the child, being about the age of half a year old and he did so, and when she yet found not the quietness that she desired, she willed it to lay a lameness in the leg of this Frauncis her husband, and it did in this manner. It came in a morning to this Frauncis shoe, lying in it like a tod, and when he perceived it put¦tinge on his shoe, and had touched it with his foot, he being suddenly amassed asked of her what it was, and she bad him kill it, and he was forthwith taken with a lameness whereof he can not healed.
After all this when she had kept this Cat, by the space of .xv. or xvi. year, and as some say (though untruly) being weary of it, she came to one mother Waterhouse her neighbor (a pore woman) when she was going to the ouē, and desired her to give her a cake, & she wold give her a thing that she should be the better
for so lōg as she lived, & this mother waterhouse gave her a cake, where upon she brought her this cat in her apron and taught her as she was in structed before by her grandmother Eve, tellig her that she must cal him Satan and give him of her blood and bread and milk as before, and at this examination would confess no more.

Mother waterhouse of Not•ylde peuerell of the age of .lxii. years being examined the same day confessed as follows, & the xxix. day suffered.
First she received this cat of this frances wife in ye order as is before said, who wild her to cal him sathā, and told her that if she made much of him he would do for her what she would have him to do.

Then when she had received him

the (to try him what he could do) wyld him to kill a hog of her own which he did, and she gave him for his labour a chicken, which he first required of her & a drop of her blot. And this she gave him at all times when he did any thing for her, by pricking her hand or face & putting the blood to his mouth which he sucked, & forthwith wold lye down in his cot again, wherein she kept him, the spots of all the which priks are yet to be scene in her skin.
Also she says that another time being offended with one father Kerr¦sye she toke her cat Satan in her lap and put him in the wood before her door, & willed him to kill three of this father Kerseys hogs, which he did, and returning again told her so, and she rewarded him as before, with a chicken and a drop of her blood, which chicken he eat up clean as he did al the rest, and she


cold find remaining neither bones nor feathers.
Also she confessed that falling out with one widow Gooday she willed Satan to drown her cow and he did so, and she rewardid him as before.

Also she falling out with another of her neighbours, she killed her three geese in the same manner.

Item, she confessed that because she could have no rest (which she required) she caused satan to destroy the brewing at that time.

Also being denied butter of an other, she caused her to lose the curdes ii. or .iii. days after.

Item falling out with an other of her neighbours and his wife, she willed satan to kill him with a bluddye knife, whereof he dyed, and she rewarded him as before.

Likewise she confessed, that because she lived somewhat unquietly


with her husband she caused Satan to kill him, and he did so about .ix. years past, sith which time she hath lived a widow.
Also she said that when she would will him to do any thing for her, she would say her Pater noster in latin.

Item this mother Waterhouse confessed that she first turned this Cat into a tod by this means, she

kept the cat a great while in woll in a pot, and at length being moved by poverty to occupy the wol, she prayed


in the name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy ghost that it wold turn into a tod, and forthwith it was turned into a tod, and so kept it in the pot without woll.
Also she said, that going to Brack stead a little before her apprehentyon, this Satan willed her to hie her home, for she should have great trouble, and that she should be either hanged or burned shortly, more at this time she would not confess.

Ione Waterhouse, daughter to the mother Waterhouse, being of the age of .xviii. years, and examined, cōfesseth as follows.
First, that her mother this last wyn¦la would have lear¦ned her this art, but she learned it not, nether yet the name of the thing. She saith she never saw it but once in her mothers hand, and that was in the like¦nes of a tod, and at that time coming in at a sudden when her mother called it out to work some thing withal, she herd her to call it Satan, for she was not

at any time truly taught if, nor did never exercise it before this time as follows.
Item she confessed that when her mother was gone to Breakstede, in her absence lacking bread, she went to a girl, a neighbours child, and desired her to give her a piece of bred and cheese, which when she denied and gave her not, or at the least not so much as would satisfy her, she going home did as she had seen her mother doe, calling Satan, which came to her (as she said) she thought out of her mothers show from under the dead, in the likeness of a great dog, demanding


what she would have, wherewithal she being a feared, said she wold have him to make such a girl a ferd naming this girl, then asked he her what she would give him, and she said a red kocke, then said he no, but thou shalt give me thy body and soul, whereby she being soore feared, and desirous to be rid of him, said she wold: And herewith he went to this girl in the likeness of an evil •auou••d dog with whore¦nes on his head, and made her very much afeared, and doth yet haunt her, now can not these witches (as they say) cal him in again, because they did not let him out. And more (saith she) she never did, but this her doing was the reuealyng of all the rest.
    FINIS.


Imprinted at London by William Powell for William Pickeringe dwelling at Saint M•gn•s corner and are there for to be sold.

Anno 1566. the. 13. August.



The second examination and Confession of mother Agnes Waterhouse & Ione her daughter, upon her arainement with the questions & answers of Agnes Browne the child, on whom the spirit haunteth at this present, deliberately declared before Justice Southcote and master Gerard the queens attorney, the .xxvii. day of July Anno. 1566. no less wonderful then most true.


The Confession of Agnes Waterhouse the .xxvii. day of July in Anno. 1566. at Chelmsford before Justice Southcote and M. Edrard the queens Attorney.
First being demaun¦ded whether that she were guilty or not guilty upon her araynement of the murdering of a man, she confessed that she was guilty, and thē upon the evidence given a¦against her daughter Ione Waterhouse, she said that she had a White Cat, and willed her cat that he should destroy many of her neighbours cattle, and also that

he should kill a man, and so he did, and then after she must go .ii. or .iii. mile from her house, and then she toke thought howe to keep her cat, then she and her cat concluded that he the said cat would become a tod, and then she should keep him in a close house & give him milk, and so he would continue till she came home again, and then being gone forth, her daughter having ben at a neighbours house there by, required of one Agnes Browne, of the age of xii. years or more, a piece of bread and cheese, and the said Agnes said that she

had none, and that she had not the key of the milkhouse door, and then the said Ione went home and was angry with the said Agnes brown and she said that she remem¦bred that her mother was wont to go up and down in her house to call Satan Satan she said she would prove the like, & then she went up and down the house and called Satan, and then there came a black dog to her and asked her what she would have, and then she said she was aferd and said I wold have thee to make one Agnes browne afraid, and then he asked

her what she wold give him and she said she would give him a red kock, and he said he would have none of that, and she asked him what he would have then, & he said he wold have her body and soul, and so upon request and fear together she gave him her body and soul, and then said the queens attur¦neye, Howe vvylt thou do before god. O my lord, I trust god will have mercy upon me, and then he said, thou saiste well, and then he departed from her, and then she said that she herd that he made the said Agnes Browne a feared.

The said Agnes Brown was then demanded and called for, and then she came in, and being asked what age she was of she said she thought she was, xii. years old, and then the queens attorney asked her what she could say, and then she said that at such a day naming the day certain that she

was chirning of butter and there came to her a thing like a black dog with a face like an ape a short tail a cheine and a silver whistle (to her thinking) about his neck, and a pair of horns on his head, & brought in his mouth she key of the milkehouse door, and then my lord she said, I was a feared, for he skipped and leaped to and fro, and sat on the top of a nettle, and then I asked  what he would  he would and I said I had none and then he said he  have some or he went, and then he

did run to put the key into the locke of the mylkehouse door, and I said he should have none, and he said he would have some, and then he opened the door and went upon the shelf, and there vpō anew chese laid down the key, and being a while within he came out again, and locked the door and said that he had made butter for mice, and so departed, and then she said see told her aunt of it, and then she sent for the priest, and when he came he bad her to pray to god, and cal on the name of Iesus, and so the next day my lord he came again

to me with the key of our milkehouse door in his mouth, and then I said in the name of Iesus what haste thou there, and then he laid down the key and said that I spake evil words in speaking of that name, and then he departed, and so my aunt toke up the key for he had kept it from vs. ii days and a night, & then we went into the milkhouse and there we did se the print of butter upon the chese, and then within a few days after he came again with a bean pod in his mouth and then the queens attorney asked what that was, and

so the other Justices declared, and then she said my lord I said in the name of Iesus what hast thou there and so then he laid it down and said I spake evil words and departed and came again by & by with a piece of bread in his mouth, and I asked him what he wold have and he said butter it was that he would have, & so he departed, and my lord I did not se him no more till wenseday last, which was the .xxiiii. day of July why said the queens attorney was he with the on wēseday last, ye she said, what did he then to thee said he,

my lord said she he came with a knife in his mouth and asked me if I were not dead and I said no I thanked god, and then he said if I would not dye that he wold thrust his knife to my heart but he wold make me to dye, and then I said in the name of iesus lay down thy knife, and he said he would not depart from his meet dames knife as yet, & then I asked of him who was his dame, and then he nodded & wagged his head to your house mother water house, then the queens attorney asked of the said Agnes waterhouse what

she said to it, then she demā¦ded what manner knife that it was, and Agnes Browne said it was a dagger knife, there thou lie said Agnes waterhouse, why quote the queens attorney, mary my lord (quote she) she saith it is a dagger knife, and I have none such in my house, but a great knife, and therein she lies, yea yea, my lord, quoth Ione waterhouse she lies in that she saith that it had a face like an ape, for this that came to me was like a dog, well said the queens attorney well, can you make it come before vs now, if ye can we will dispatch

you out of prison by and by, no faith said Agnes Waterhouse I can not, for in faith if I had let him go as my daughter did I could make him come by and by, but now I have no more po¦were over him, then said the queens attorney, Agnes waterhouse when did thy Cat suck of thy blood never said she, no said he, let me se, and then the jailer lifted up her kercher on her head and there was diverse spots in her face & one on her nose, then said the queens attorney, in good faith Agnes when did he suck of thy blood last, by my faith


my lord said she, not this fortnight, and so the jury went toge therefore that matter.
Imprinted at London by William Powell for William Pickeringe dwelling at Saint Magnus corner and are there for to be sold.

Anno 1566. the. 13. August.



The end and last confession of mother Waterhouse at her death, which was the xxix. day of July. Anno. 1566.
[Figure:

FYrste (beinge redi prepared to receiue her death) she confessed earnestly that shee had bene a wytche and vsed suche execrable sorserye the space of .xv. yeres, and had don many abhominable dede, the which she repēted earnestely & vnfaynedly, and desyred almyghty God forgeuenes in that she had abused hys most holy name by

her deuyllishe practyses, and trusted to be saued by his most vnspekeable mercy. And being demaunded of the by standers, shee confessed that shee sent her sathan to one Wardol, a neibour of hers, beinge a tayler (with whō she was offended) to hurte and destroy him & his goodes. And this [Figure: ] her Satan went therabuot for to have done her will, but in the end he returned to her again, and was not able to do this mischief, she asked the cause, and he answered because the said Wardol was so strong in faith that he had no power to hurt him, yet she sent him diverse and sundry time (but all in vain) to

have mischeuid him. And being de¦maunded whether she was accustomed to go to church to the common prayer or divine service, she said yea & being required what she did there she said she did as other women do, and prayed right heartily there, and when she was demanded what prayer she said, she answered the Lords prayer, the Aue Maria, and the belefe, & then they demanded whether in latin or in english, and she said in latin, and they demanded why she said it not in english but in latin, seeing that it was set out by public authority and according to gods word that all men should pray in the engly she & mother tongue that they best understand, and she said that satan would at no time suffer her to say it in english, but at all times in latin: for these and many other offences which she has committed, done and confessed she


bewailed, repented, and asked mercy of God, and all the world forgiveness, and thus she yielded up her soul, trusting to be in joy with Christ her saviour, which dearly had bought her with his most precious blood.
Amen.