THE WONDERFUL DISCOVERY OF THE Witchcrafts of Margaret and Phillip Flower, daughters of Join Flower near Beaver Castle: Executed at Lincoln, March 11. 1618. Who were specially arraigned and condemned before Sir Henry Hobart, and Sir Edward Bromley, Judges of Assise, for confessing themselves actors in the destruction of Henry Lord Rosse, with their damnable practises against others the Children of the Right Honourable FRANCIS Earl of Rutland. Together with the several Examinations and Confessions of Anne Baker, Join Willimot, and Ellen Greene, Witches in Leicestershire.


THE WONDERFUL DISCOVERY OF THE Witch-craftes of Margraet and Phillip Flower Daughters of Join Flower, by BEAVER CASTLE, and executed at LINCOLN the 11. of March. 1618.
MY meaning is not to make any contentious Arguments about the discourses, distinction or definition of Witchcraft, the power of Devils, the nature of Spirits, the force of Charms, the secrets of Incantation, and such like; because the Scriptures are full of prohibitions to this purpose, and proclaims death to the presumptuous attempters

of the same: Besides both Princes (yea our own learned and most judicious King) Philosophers, Poets, Chronologers, Historiographers, and many worthy Writers, have concurred and concluded in this; that divers impious and facinorous mischiefs have been effectuated through the instruments of the Devil, by permission of God, so that the actors of the same have carried away the opinion of the world, to doe that which they did by Witchcraft, or at least to be esteemed Witches, for bringing such and such things to posse: For howsoever the learned have charactred delinquents in this kind by titles of sundry sorts, and most significant attributes; as Pythonissae dealing with artificial Charms; Magi anciently reputed so, for extraordinary wisdom and knowledge in the secrets of simples and herbs; Chaldei, famous for Astronomy and Astrology; Necromancers for practising to raise dead bodies, and by them to foretell events of the earth; Geomantici, for conversing with Spirits, and using Inchantations;


Genethliaci, for presuming on the calculating of Nativities, or if you will, assuming the credit of Figure-casting; Ventriloqui, for speaking with hollow voices as if they were possessed with Devils; Venefici, for dealing with Poison, and either killing or curing that way: For you must understand however the Professors aforesaid practise murder and mischief, yet many times they Pretend cures and preservation; with many others, carrying the show of great learning and admired knowledge; yet have they all but one familiar term with vs in English called Witches. As for the conceit of wise-men or wise women, they are all merely coseners and deceivers; so that if they make you believe that by their means you shall hear of things lost or stolen, it is either done by Confederacy, or put off by protraction to deceive you of your money.
Only (as I said before) there bee certain men and women grown in years, and ouer-growne with Melancholy and Atheism, who out of a malicious disposition
against their betters, or others thriving by them; but most times from a heart-burning desire of revenge, having entertained some impression of displeasure, and unkindness, study nothing but mischief and exotic practises of loathsome Arts and Sciences: yet I must needs say, that sometimes the fained reputation of wisdom, cunning, and to be reputed a dangerous and skilful person, hath so prevailed with divers, that they have taken upon them indeed to know more then God ever afforded any creature, & to perform no less then the Creator both of Heaven & earth; making you believe with Medea, that they can raise tempests, turn the Sun into blood, pull the Moon out of her Sphere, and sail over the Sea in a cockle shell, according to the Poet.
Flectere si nequeam Superos, Acheronta mouebo.
If Art doe fail to move the Gods
consent unto my mind:
I will the Devils raise, to doe
what they can in their kind.
But howsoever special persons are transported with an opinion of their own worth, and prevailing in this kind, yet by lamentable experience we know too well, what monstrous effects have been produced, even to the horror of the hearers, and damnation of their own souls by such kind of people: For as it is in the tale of the envious man, that put out one of his eyes to have his companion loose both; so fares it with them and worse, to give away their souls to bee revenged of their adversaries bodies, wherein the monstrous subtlety of the Devil is so apparent, that it is wonderful one way to relate, and lamentable another way to observe the same. For no sooner shall such motives poison the inward conceit or apprehension of such damnable Caitiffes: But then steps forth the Devil, and not only shows them the way, but prescribes the manner of effecting the same, with facility and easiness, assuring that he himself will attend them in some familiar shape of Rat, Cat, Toad,

Bird, Cricket, &c: yea effectuate whatsoever they shall demand or desire, and for their better assurance and corroboration of their credulity, they shall have palpable and forcible touches of sucking, pinching, kissing, closing, colling and such like: whereupon, without any fear of God or Man, knowledge of Christ, hope of redemption, confidence of mercy, or true belief that there is any other thing to bee looked after but this present World; according to that Atheistical position of Epicurus.
Ede, bib, lude, post mortem nulla voluptas.
Eat, drink, sport, play and take thy pleasures rest:
For after death, who knows what shall be best.
They admit of those execrable conditions of commutation of souls for the entertaining of the spirits, and so fall to their abominable practises, continuing in the same till God laugh them to scorn, and will by no means suffer them to abuse his holy name nor deceive others by their profane lives

any longer: Witness for the general those infinite Treatises of many of them convinced by Law, and condemned to death, to the fearful example of all carnal and hypocritical Christians: but more especially you may ouer-looke (if you please) that learned Discourse of Daemonologie, composed in form of a Dialogue, by the High and mighty Prince, IAMES by the grace of God, King of England, Scotland, France and Ireland, &c. and printed (as I take it) according to the copy of Edinburgh, 1603. As also a Treatise of Witch-craft made by that learned Mr. Alexander Roberts Preacher at Kings-Line in Norfolk, 1615. upon the discovery of the Witch-crafts of Mary Smith, wife of Henry Smith Glover, with her vocal contract between the Devil and her self, in solemn terms, and such like imposturing filthiness: with many hurts and mischiefs which thereby she procured: As also a certain discovery 1611. made by Iohn Cotta Doctor of Physic in Northampton of Empericks, women about sick persons:
Quacksaluers, and fugitives, which seem to work juggling wonders, Surgeons, Apothecaries, practisers by spells, the true discovery of Witch-craft, especially in the sick with many instances in that kind, Wizards, and servants, of Physicians, who may bee called ministering helpers: To this he hath added the Methodian learned deceiver, or heretic Physician, Astrologers, Ephemerides-maisters, Coniecters by urine, Travellers, and last of all, the true Artist his right description and election. As also a Dialogue concerning Witches and Witchcraft, composed by George Gifford, Minister of Gods word in Milton, 1603. Wherein the cunning of the Devil is discovered, both concerning the deceiving of witches, and seducing of others into many great errors: As also an ancient discourse of the fearful practises of four notorious French Witches, with the manner of their strange execution. As also the several and damnable practises of Mother Sutton of Milton Miles in the County of Bedford, and Mary Sutton her Daughter,

who were arraigned, condemned, and executed for the same: As also 1612. the wonderful discovery of Witches in Lancashire, being 19. in number, notorious for many informed actions, and convicted before Sr. Iames Altham, and S. Edward Bromley, Barons of the Exchequer, together with the arraignment and trial of Jennet Preston, at York, with her fearful execution for the murdering of Mr. Lisker by Witch-craft; with infinite other relations concerning the general conviction of Witches, and their practises, and condemnation of the particular opinion of some men, who suppose there bee none at all, or at least that they doe not personally or truly effect such things as are imputed unto them, and which out of some dangerous impression of melancholy, vaineglory, or some other diseased operation, they assume to themselves by reason of a former contract with the Devil. And so much for the certainty of Story, and fearfulness of the truth concerning the damnable practises of Witches and cunning of the Devil to deceive them.

But yet because the mind of man may be carried away with many idle conjectures, either that women confessed these things by extreme???y of torture, or that ancient examples are by this time forgotten (although the particulars are upon record, for the benefit of all posterity:) Or that they were besides themselves, or subject to some weak devise or other, rather to bring in question the integrity of Justice; then to make odious the lives of such horrible offenders. I have presumed to present on the Stage of verity for the good of my Country & the love of truth, the late woeful Tragedy of the destruction of the Right Honourable the Earl of Rutlands Children, who to his eternal praise proceeded yet both religiously and charitably against the offenders, leaving their prosecution to the law and submitting himself, and deplorable case to the providence of God, who afflicts his best servants with punishments, and many times, sends extraordinary vengeance as well on the innocent, as the bad deserver, to manifest his glory:

Therefore by way of Caution I advise thee (gentle Reader) whosoever thou art, to take heed how thou doest either despise the power of God in his Creatures, or vilipend the subtlety and fury of the Devil, as Gods instrument of vengeance, considering that truth in despite of gain sayers will prevail, according to that principle: Magna est veritas & preualebit.

The Story follows.
AFter the Right Honourable Sr. Francis Manners succeeded his Brother in the Earldom of Rutland: and so not only took possession of Beaver Castle, but of all other his demeans, Lordships, Towns, Manors, Lands, and Revenues appropriate to the same Earldom: he proceeded so honourably in the course of his life, as neither displacing Tenants, discharging servants, denying the access of the poor, welcoming of strangers, and performing all the duties of a noble Lord, that

he fastened as it were unto himself the love and good opinion of the Country wherein he walked the more cheerfully and remarkable, because his honourable Countess marched arm in arm with him in the same race; so that Beaver Castle was a continual Palace of entertainment, and a daily receptacle for all sorts both rich and poor, especially such ancient people as neighboured the same; amongst whom one Join Flower, with her Daughters Margaret and Phillp were not only relieved at the first from thence, but quickly entertained as Chair-women, and Margaret admitted as a continual dweller in the Castle, looking both to the poultry abroad and the wash-house within doors: In which life they continued with equal correspondence, till something was discovered to the noble Lady, which concerned the misdemeanour of these women. And although such honourable persons shall not want of all sorts of people, either to bring the?? news, tales, reports, or to serve their turn in all offices whatsoever; so that it may well

bee said of them, as it is of great Kings and Princes, that they have large hands, wide ears, and piercing sights to discover the vnswept corners of their remotest confines, to reach even to their furthest borders, and to understand the secrets of their meanest subjects: yet in this matter, neither were they busie-bodies, flatterers, malicious politians, underminers, nor supplanters one of another good fortune; but went simply to work, as regarding the honour of the Earl and his Lady, and so by degrees gave light to their understanding to apprehend their complaints. First, that Join Flower the Mother was a monstrous malicious woman, full of oaths, curses, and imprecations irreligious, and for any thing they saw by her, a plain Atheist; besides of late days her very countenance was estranged, her eyes were fiery and hollow, her speech fell and envious, her de???eanour strange and exotic, and her conversation sequestered; so that the whole course of her life gave great suspicion that she was a notorious Witch, yea some of her

neighbours dared to affirm that she dealt with familiar spirits, and terrified them all with curses and threatening of revenge, if there were never so little cause of displeasure and unkindness. Concerning Margaret, that she often resorted from the Castle to her Mother, bringing such provision as they thought was unbefitting for a servant to purloin, and coming at such unseasonable hours, that they could not but conjecture some mischief between them, and that their extraordinary riot & expenses, tended both to rob the Lady, & to maintain certain deboist and base company which frequented this Join Flowers house the mother, & especially her youngest Daughter. Concerning Phillip, that she was lewdly transported with the love of one Th: Simpson, who presumed to say, that she had bewitched him: for he had no power to leave her, and was as he supposed marvelously altered both in mind and body, since her acquainted company: these complaints began many years before either their conviction, or public

apprehension: Notwithstanding such was the honour of this Earl and his Lady; such was the cunning of this monstrous woman in observation towards them; such was the subtlety of the Devil to bring his purposes to posse; such was the pleasure of God to make trial of his servants; and such was the effect of a damnable women's wit and malicious envy, that all things were carried away in the smooth Channel of liking and good entertainment on every side, until the Earl by degrees conceived some mislike against her; and so, peradventure estranged himself from that familiarity and accustomed conferences he was wont to have with her: until one Peat offered her some wrong; against whom she complained, but found that my Lord did not affect her clamours, and malicious information, until one Mr. Vauasor abandoned her company, as either suspicious of her lewd life, or distasted with his own misliking of such base and poor Creatures, whom no body loved but the Earls

household; until the Countess misconceiuing of her daughter Margaret, and discovering some vndecencies both in her life and neglect of her business, discharged her from lying any more in the Castle, yet gave her 40. s. a bolster, & a mattress of wool: commanding her to go home, until the slackness of her repairing to the Castle, as she was wont, did turn her love and liking toward this honourable Earl and his family into hate and rancor: whereupon despited to bee so neglected, and exprobrated by her neighbours for her Daughters casting out of doors, and other conceived displeasures, she grew past all shame and Woman-hood, and many times cursed them all that were the cause of this discontentment, and made her so loathsome to her former familiar friends, and beneficial acquaintance.
When the Devil perceived the inficious disposition of this wretch, and that she and her Daughters might easily bee made instruments to enlarge his Kingdom, and bee as it were the executioners of his vengeance;

not caring whether it lighted upon innocents or no, he came more nearer unto them, and in plain terms to come quickly to the purpose, offered them his service, and that in such a manner, as they might easily command what they pleased: For he would attend you in such pretty forms of dog, cat, or Rat, that they should neither be terrified, nor any body else suspicious of the matter. Upon this they agree, and (as it should seem) give away their souls for the service of such spirits, as he had promised them; which filthy conditions were ratified with abominable kisses, and an odious sacrifice of blood, not leaving out certain charms and conjurations with which the Devil deceived them, as though nothing could bee done without ceremony, and a solemnity of orderly ratification. By this time doth Satan triumph, and goes away satisfied to have caught such fish in the net of his illusions: By this time are these women Devils incarnate, and grow proud again in their cunning and artificial power, to doe what mischief they listed By

this time they have learnt the manner of inchantations, Spells and Charms: By this time they kill what Cattle they list, and under the covert of flattery and familiar entertainment, keep hidden the stinging serpent of malice, and a venomous inclination to mischief: By this time is the Earl and his family threatened, and must feel the burden of a terrible tempest, which from these women's Devilish devises fell upon him, he neither suspecting nor understanding the same: By this time both himself and his honourable Countess, are many times subject to sickness and extraordinary conuulsions, which they taking as gentle corrections from the hand of God, submit with quietness to his mercy, and study nothing more, then to glorify their Creator in heaven, and bear his crosses on earth.
At last, as malice increased in these damnable Women; so his family felt the smart of their revenge and inficious disposition. For his eldest Son Henry Lord

Rosse sickened very strangely, and after a while died: his next named Francis Lord Rosse accordingly, was severely tormented by them, and most barbarously and inhumanely tortured by a strange sickness; not long after the Lady Katherine was set upon by their dangerous and devilish practises, and many times in great danger of life, through extreme maladies and unusual fits, nay (as it should seem, and they afterwards confessed) both the Earl and his Countess were brought into their snares as they imagined, and indeed determined to keep them from having any more children. Oh unheard of wickedness and mischievous damnation? Notwithstanding all this did the noble Earl attend his Majesty, both at New-market before Christmas, and at Christmas at Whitehall; bearing the loss of his Children most nobly, and little suspecting that they had miscarried by Witch-craft, or such like inventions of the Devil, until it pleased God to discover the villainous practises of these Women, and to command the Devil

from executing any further vengeance on innocents, but leave them to their shames, and the hands of Justice, that they might not only be confounded for their villainous practises, but remain as a notorious example to all ages of his judgment and fury. Thus were they apprehended about Christmas, and carried to Lincoln Jail, after due examination, before sufficient Justices of the Peace, and discreet Magistrates, who wondered at their audacious wickedness, but Join Flow???r the Mother before conviction, (as they say) called for Bread and Butter, and wished it might never go through her if she were guilty of that whereupon she was examined; so mumbling it in her mouth, never spake more words after, but fell down and dyed as she was carried to Lincoln Goal, with a horrible excruciation of soul and body, and was buried at Ancestor.
When the Earl heard of their apprehension, he hasted down with his brother Sr. George, and sometimes examining them himself, and sometimes sending them to others;

at last left them to the trial of Law, before the Judges of assise at Lincoln; and so they were convicted of murder and executed accordingly, about the 11. of March, to the terror of all the beholders, and example of such dissolute and abominable Creatures, and because you shall have both cause to glorify God for this discovery, and occasion to apprehend the strangeness of their lives, and truth of their proceedings: I thought it both meet and convenient to lay open their own Examinations and Evidences against one another, with such apparent circumstances, as doe not only show the cause of their mislike and distasting against the Earl and his family; but the manner of their proceedings and revenges, with other particulars belonging to the true and plain discovery of their villainy and Witch-craft.

The Examinations of Anne Baker, Join Willimot, and Ellen Greene; as follows, &c.
[Figure:

Anne Baker. Join Willimot. Ellen Greene.

THE EXAMINATION of Anne Baker of Bottesford in the County of Leicester Spinster, taken March, 1. 1618. by the Right Honourable, Francis Earl of Rutland, Sir George Manners Knight, two of his Majesties Justices of the peace for the County of Lincoln, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, one of his Majesties Justices of the peace for the County of Leicester aforesaid.
SHE saith that there are four colours of Planets, Black, Yellow, Greene, and Blew, and that Black is always death, and that she saw the Blew Planet strike Thomas Fairebarne, the eldest son unto William Fairebarne of

Bottesford aforesaid by the Pinfold there, within the which time the said William Faire-barne did beat her and break her head, whereupon the said Thomas Faire-barne, did mend. And being asked who did send that Planet? answered it was not I.
Further she saith, that she saw a hand appear unto her, and that she heard a voice in the ayre said unto her: Anne Baker, save thy self, for to morrow thou and thy master must be slain: and the next day her master and she were in a Cart together; and suddenly she saw a flash of fire, and said her prayers, and the fire went away, and shortly after a Crow came and picked upon her clothes, and she said her prayers again, and bad the Crow go to whom he was sent, and the Crow went unto her Master, and did beat him to death, and she with her prayers recovered him to life; but he was sick a fortnight after, and saith, that if she had not had more knowledge then her master, both he and she and all the Cattle had been slain.

Being examined concerning a Child of Anne Stannidge, which she was suspected to have bewitched

to death; saith, the said Anne Stannidge did deliver her child into her hands, and that she did lay it upon her skirt, but did no harm unto it; And being charged by the Mother of the child, that upon the burning of the hair and the paring of the nails of the said child, the said Anne Baker came in and set her down, and for one hours space could speak nothing; confesses she came into the house of the said Anne Stannidge in great pain, but did not know of the burning of the hair and nails of the said Child; but said she was so sick that she did not know whither she went.
Being charged that she bewitched Elizabeth Hough, the wife of William Hough to death, for that she angered her in giving her alms of her second bread; confesses that she was angry with her and said she might have given her of her better bread, for she had gone too often on her errands, but more she saith not.

This Examinat confesses that she came to Join Gylles house, her child being sick, and that she entreated this Examinat to look on the Child, and to tell her whether it was forspoken or no, and

this Examinate said it was forspoken; but when the said child died she cannot tell.
And being asked concerning Nortley carrying of his Child home unto his own house, where the said Anne Baker was, she asked him, who gave the said Child that loaf, he told her Anthony Gill, to whom this Examinate said, he might have had a Child of his own if he would have sought in time for it; which words she confessed she did speak.

Being blamed by Henry Milles in this sort: A fire set on you, I have had two or three ill nights; to whom she made answer, you should have let me alone then, which she confesses.

The said Anne Baker, March 2. 1618. confessed before Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, that about 3. years ago, she went into Northamptonshire, and that at her coming back again, one Peakes wife and Dennis his wife of Beluoyre told her that my young Lord Henry was dead, and that there was a glove of the said Lord buried in the ground; and as that glove did rot and wast, so did the liver of the said Lord rot and wast.

Further she said, March 3. 1618. before Sr. George Manners Knight, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, that she hath a Spirit which hath the shape of a white Dog, which she calls her good Spirit.
Samuel Fleming test.

The Examination of Join Willimot, taken the 28. of February, in the 16. year of the reign of our Sovereign Lord, IAMES, over England King &c. and over Scotland the 52. before Alexander Amcotts Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of the peace of the said parts and County.
THis Examinat saith, that Join Flower told her that my Lord of Rutland had dealt badly with her and that they had put away her Daughter, and that although she could not have her will of my Lord himself, yet she had spied my Lords Son and had stricken him to the heart. And she saith, that my Lords Son was stricken with a white Spirit, and that she can cure some that send unto her, and that some reward her for her pains, and of some she takes nothing.

She further saith, that upon Friday night last, her Spirit came to her and told her that there was a bad woman at Deeping who had given her soul to the Devil: and that her said Spirit did then appear unto her in a more ugly form then it had formerly done, and that it urged her much to give it something, although it were but a piece of her Girdle, and told her that it had taken great pains for her, but she saith that she would give it nothing, and told it that she had sent it to no place but only to see how my Lord Rosse did, and that her Spirit told her that he should doe well.


The Examination of the said Join Willimott, taken the second day of March in the year abouesaid, before the said Alexander Amcots.
THis Examinate saith, That she hath a Spirit which she calls Pretty, which was given unto her by William Berry of Langholme in Rutlandshire, whom she served three years; and that her Master when he gave it unto her, willed her to open her mouth, and he would blow into her a Fairy which should doe her good; and that she opened her mouth, and he did blow into her mouth; and that presently after his blowing, there came out of her mouth a Spirit, which stood upon the ground in the the shape and form of a Woman, which Spirit did ask of her her Soul, which she then promised unto it, being willed thereunto by her Master. She further confesses, that she never hurt any body, but did help divers that sent for her,

which were stricken or fore-spoken: and that her Spirit came weekly to her, and would tell her of divers persons that were stricken and forespoken. And she saith, that the use which she had of the Spirit, was to know how those did which she had undertaken to amend; and that she did help them by certain prayers which she used, and not by her own Spirit; neither did she employ her Spirit in any thing, but only to bring word how those did which she had undertaken to cure.
And she further saith, that her Spirit came unto her this last night (as she thought) in the form of a woman, mumbling, but she could not understand what it said. And being asked whether she were not in a dream or slumber when she thought she saw it, she said no, and that she was as waking as at this present.

Alexander Amcots.
Thomas Robinson test.

The Examination of Join Willimot of Goodbye in the County of Leicester Widow, taken the 17. of March, 1618. by Sir Henry Hastings Knight, and Samuel Fleming Doctor of Divinity, two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace of the said County of Leicester.
SHe saith that she told one Cooks wife of Stathorne in the said County Labourer, that Iohn Patchett might have had his Child alive, if he would have sought forth for it in time, and if it were not death stricken in her ways, and that Patchets wife had an evil thing within her, which should make an end of her, and that she knew by her Girdle.

She saith further, that Gamaliel Greet of Waltham in the said County Shepherd, had a Spirit like a white Mouse put into him

in his swearing; and that if he did look upon any thing with an intent to hurt, it should be hurt, and that he had a mark on his left arm, which was cut away; and that her own spirit did tell her all this before it went from her.
Further she saith, that Join Flower, Margaret Flower and she, did meet about a week before Join Flowers apprehension, in Blackborrow-hill, and went from thence home to the said Join Flowers house, and there she saw two spirits, one like a Rat, and the other like an Owl; and one of them did suck under her right ear, as she thought: and the said Join told her, that her spirits did say that she should neither be hanged nor burnt.

Further she saith, that the said Join Flower did take up some earth and spent upon it, and did work it with her finger, and put it up into her purse, and said though she could not hurt the Lord himself, yet she had sped his Son, which is dead.

H. Hastings.
Samuel Fleming.


The Examination of Ellen Greene of Stathorne in the County of Leicester, taken the 17. of March 1618. by Sir Henry Hastings Knight: and Samuel Fleming D. of Divinity, two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace of his said County.
She saith, that one Join Willimot of Goodbye came about six years since to her in the Woulds, and persuaded this Examinate to forsake God, and betake her to the devil, and she would give her two spirits, to which she gave her consent, and thereupon the said Join Willimot called two spirits, one in the likeness of a Kitlin, and the other of a Moldiwarp: the first the said Willimot called pusse, the other hiffe, hiffe, and they presently came to her, & she departing left them with this Examinate, and they leapt on her shoulder, and the kitlin sucked under her right ear on her neck, & the Moldiwarp on the left side in the like place.


After they had sucked her, she sent the Kitlin to a Baker of that Town, whose name she remembers not, who had called her Witch & stricken her; and bad her said spirit go and bewitch him to death: the Moldiwarpe she then bad go to Anne Dawse of the same town and bewitch her to death, because she had called this examinate witch, whore, jade, &c. and within one fortnight after they both dyed.
And further this Examinate saith, that she sent both her spirits to Stonesby, to one Willison a husbandman, & Robert Williman a husbandman's son, and bad the Kitlin go to Willison and bewitch him to death, and the Moldywarp to the other, and bewitch him to death, which they did; and within ten days they dyed. These four were bewitched while this Examinate dwelt at Waltham aforesaid.

About three years since, this Examinate removed thence to Stathorne, where she now dwelt: upon a difference between the said Willimot and the wife of Iohn Patchet of the said Stathorne Yeoman, she the said Willimot called her this Examinate to go and touch


the said Iohn Patchets Wife and her Child, which she did, touching the said Iohn Patchets wife in her bed, and the child in the Grace-wifes arms, and then sent her said spirits to bewitch them to death, which they did, and so the woman lay languishing by the space of a month and more, for then she dyed; the child dyed the next day after she touched it.
And she further saith, that the said Join Willimot had a spirit sucking on her, under the left flank, in the likeness of a little white Dog, which this Examinate saith, that she saw the same sucking in Barley-haruest last, being then at the house of the said Join Willimot.

And for her self, this Examinate further saith, that she gave her soul to the Devil to have these spirits at her command; for a confirmation whereof, she suffered them to suck her always as aforesaid about the change and full of the Moon.

H. Hastings.
Samuel Fleming.



The Examination of Phillip Flower, Sister of Margaret Flower, and Daughters of Join Flower, before Sr William Pelham, and Mr. Butler, Justices of the Peace, Fibre. 4. 1618. Which was brought in at the Assizes as evidence against her Sister Margaret.
SHe saith, that her mother and her sister maliced the Earl of Rutland, his Countess, and their Children, because her Sister Margaret, was put out of the Ladies service of Laundry, and exempted from other services about the house, whereupon her said sister, by the commandment of her mother, brought from the Castle the right hand glove of the Lord Henry Rosse, which she delivered to her Mother; who presently rubbed it on the back of her Spirit Rutterkin, and then put it into hot boiling water, afterword she pricked it often, and buried it in the yard, wishing the Lord Rosse might never thrive, and so her Sister Margaret continued with her mother, where she often saw the cat Rutterkin leap on her shoulder, and suck her neck.

She further confessed, that she heard her mother often curse the Earl and his Lady, and thereupon would boyle feathers and blood together, using many Devilish speeches and strange gestures.


The Examination of Margaret Flower, Sister of Phillip Flower &c. about the 22. of January. 1618.
SHe saith and confesses, that about four or five year since her Mother sent her for the right hand glove of Henry Lord Rosse, afterword that her mother bade her go again into the Castle of Beaver, and bring down the glove or some other thing of Henry Lord Rosse, and she asked what to doe? Her Mother replied to hurt my Lord Rosse: whereupon she brought down a glove, and delivered the same to her Mother, who stroked Rutterkin her Cat with it, after it was dipped in hot water, and so pricked it often, after which Henry Lord Rosse fell sick within a week, and was much tormented with the same.

She further saith, that finding a glove about two or three years since of Francis Lord Rosse, on a dung-hill, she delivered it to her mother, who put it into hot water, and after took it out and rubbed it on Rutterkin the Cat, and bad him go upwards, and after her mother buried it in the yard, and said a mischief light on him, but he will mend again.

She further saith, that her Mother and she, and her Sister agreed together to bewitch the Earl and his Lady, that they might have no more children: and being demanded the cause of this their malice and ill will; she saith, that about four years since


the Countess (growing into some mislike with her) gave her forty shillings, a bolster, & a mattress, and bad her lye at home, and come no more to dwell at the Castle; which she not only took in ill part, but grudged at it exceedingly, swearing in her heart to be revenged. After this, her Mother complained to the Earl against one Peak, who had offered her some wrong, wherein she conceived that the Earl took not her part, as she expected, which dislike with the rest, exasperated her displeasure against him, and so she watched an opportunity to bee revenged: whereupon she took wool out of the said mattress, and a pair of gloves, which were given her by Mr. Vauasor, and put them into warm water, mingling them with some blood, and stirring it together, then she took the wool and gloves out of the water, and rubbed them on the belly of Rutterkin her Cat, saying the Lord and the Lady should have more Children, but it would be long first.
She further confesses, that by her mothers commandment, she brought to her a piece of a handkercher of the Lady Katherine the Earls daughter, and her mother put it into hot water, & then taking it out, rubbed it on Rutterkin, bidding him fly, and go; whereupon Rutterkin whined and cried Mew: whereupon she said, that Rutterkin had no power over the Lady Katherine to hurt her.


The Examination of Phillip Flower, the 25. of February, 1618. before Francis Earl of Rutland, Francis Lord Willoughby of Ersby, Sr. George Manners, and Sr. William Pelham.
She confesses and saith, that she hath a Spirit sucking on her in the form of a white Rat, which keeps her left breast, and hath so done for three or four years, and concerning the agreement betwixt her Spirit and her self, she confesses and saith, that when it came first unto her, she gave her Soul to it, and it promised to doe her good, and cause Thomas Simpson to love her, if she would suffer it to suck her, which she agreed unto; and so the last time it sucked was on Tuesday at night, the 23. of February.



The Examination of Margaret Flower, at the same time, &c.
She confesses, that she hath two familiar Spirits sucking on her, the one white, the other black spotted; the white sucked under her left breast, and the black spotted within the inward parts of her secrets. When she first entertained them she promised them her soul, and they covenanted to doe all things which she commanded them??? &c.

She further saith, that about the 30. of January, last past, being Saturday, four Devils appeared unto her in Lincoln layle, at eleven or twelve a clock at midnight: The one stood at her beds feet, with a black head like an Ape, and spake unto her; but what, she cannot well remember, at which she was very angry because he would speak no plainer, or let her understand his meaning: the other three were Rutterkin, Little Robin, and Spirit; but she never mistrusted them, nor suspected her self, till then.


There is another Examination of the said Margaret Flower, taken the fourth of February, 1618. tending to this effect.
THat being asked what she knows concerning the bewitching of the Earl of Rutland, his wife, and children, she saith, that it is


true, that her self, her mother, and sister were all displeased with him, especially with the Countess, for turning her out of service, whereupon some four year since, her mother commanded her to go up to the Castle, and bring her the right hand glove of the Lord Henry Rosse, the Earls eldest son; which glove she found on the rushes in the Nursery, and delivered the same to her Mother, who put it into hot water, pricked it often with her knife, then took it out of the water, and rubbed it upon Rutterkin, bidding him height and go, and doe some hurt to Henry Lord Rosse, whereupon he fell sick, and shortly after dyed, which her Mother hearing of, said it was well: but after she had rubbed the glove on the Spirit Rutterkin, she threw it into the fire and burnt it, &c.
THese Examinations and some others were taken and charily preserved for the contriving of sufficient evidences against them, and when the Judges of Assise came down to Lincoln about the first week of March, being Sr. Henry Hobert, Lord chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and Sr. Ed: Bromley one of the Barons of the Exchequer, they were presented unto them, who not only wondered at the wickedness of these persons, but were amazed at their practises and horrible contracts with the Devil to damn their own souls: And although the Right Honourable Earl had sufficient grief for the loss of his Children; yet no

doubt it was the greater to consider the manner, and how it pleased God to inflict on him such a fashion of visitation: Besides, as it amazed the hearers to understand the particulars, and the circumstances of this devilish contract, so was it as wonderful to see their desperate impenitence, and horrible distraction, according to the rest of that sort, exclaiming against the Devil for deluding them, and now breaking promise with them, when they stood in most need of his help.
Notwithstanding all these aggrauations, such was the unparalleled magnanimity, wisdom, and patience of this generous Noble-man, that he urged nothing against them more then their own confessions, and so quietly left them to judicial trial, desiring of God mercy for their souls, and of men charity to censure them in their condemnation: but God is not mocked, and so gave them over to judgment, nor man so reformed, but for the Earls sake, they cursed them to that place which they themselves long before had bargained for.

What now remains (gentle Reader) but for thee to make use of so wonderful a Story, and remarkable an accident, out of which, to draw to a conclusion, thou may collect these particulars. First, that God is the supreme commander of all things, and permits wonderful actions in the World, for the trial of the godly, the punishment of the wicked, and his own glory: of which man shall never attain to know the reason or occasion. Secondly, that the Devil is the mere servant and

agent of God, to prosecute whatsoever he shall command rather then give leave unto; limiting him yet thus far in his own nature, that he can go no further then the bounds within which he is hedged. Thirdly, that this God hath punishments, ad correctionem, that is to say, chastisements of the godly, & ad ruim, Videlicet, Judgements against the wicked, wherein yet man must disclaim any knowledge, and forsake prejudicate opinions. For the very just shall be tried like gold, and no man exempted from castigation whom God doth love. Fourthly, that this Devil, though he bee Gods Instrument, yet works altogether by deceit: for as he was a liar from the beginning; so let no man trust him, because he aims at the confusion of all Mankind. Fiftly, that the wicked, (however they may thrive and prosper for a time) yet in the end are sure to be payed home, either with punishment in this life or in the life to come, or both, as a final reward of monstrous impiety. Sixtly, that Man in his frailty must not presume of prosperity; but prepare a kind of stooping under the hand of God, when it pleases him to strike or punish vs. Seventhly, that there is no murmuring nor ripening against God, but quietly to tolerate his inflictings, whenever they chance, of which this worthy Earl is a memorable example to all men and Ages. Eightly, that the punishments of the wicked are so many warnings to all irregular sinners to amend their lives, and avoid the judgment to come, by penitence and newness of life. Ninthly, that

though man could bee content to posse over blasphemies and offences against the Statutes of Princes, yet God will overtake them in their own walks, and pull them back by the sleeve into a slaughter-house, as here you know the evidences against these people took life and power from their own Confessions. Tenthly, and last of all, that private opinion cannot prevail against public censures: for here you see the learned and religious Judges cried out with our Saviour, Ex ore tuo. Therefore though it were so, that neither Witch nor Devil could doe these things, yet Let not a Witch live, saith God, and Let them dye (saith the Law of England) that have conversation with spirits, and presume to blaspheme the name of God with spells and incantation. O then you sons of men, take warning by these examples, and either divert your steps from the broad way of destruction, and inrecouerable gulf of damnation, or with Iosuahs counsel to Ashen, bless God for the discovery of wickedness, and take thy death patiently, as the prevention of thy future judgment, and saving innocents from punishment, who otherwise may be suspected without a cause.
Vtinam tam facile vera inuenire possem, quam false conuincere.
    FINIS.