The Examination of Iohn Walsh, before Master Thomas Williams, Commissary to the Reverend father in God William bishop of Excester, upon certain Interrogatories touching Witchcraft and Sorcery, in the presence of divers gētlemen and others.

The. xx. of August. 1566.

Imprinted at London by Iohn Awdely, dwelling in little Britain street without Aldersgate. 1566. The. xxiij. of December.



 The Printer to the Christian Reader.
HEre hast thou (gentle Reader) the examination of Iohn Walsh of Netherbery in Dosetshiere, touching Sorcery and Witchcraft, which he learned (as hereafter is showed) of a certain Priest named sir Robert of Dreiton. Wherein thou may see the fruits of Papists and papistrye, and their ill exercises of their idle lives, which hath been no small hurt to all common weals. For hereby not only the simple people have been falsely seduced and superstitiously lead: but all estates have been sore grieved and troubled by these their practises of Sorcery and Witchcraft.

It would be to tedious to show but a few histories of their devilish practises, and to to horrible facts in murders and other mischiefs: which not only the fat belly fed Moonkes, flat¦tering Friars, and idle lusty Priests practised and used: but also the holy fathers them selves Popes, Cardinals, and Bishops were chiefly and wholly given to the study and exercise of these most wicked and devilish sciences, and by these means did work to come to the Papal seat, hie dignities, and great wealth. Which was (as the histories declare) with the murdering and poisoning privily one of anothrr.

As first Pope Alexander the sixth, having associates
with wicked Sprites and Devils, gave himself body and soul unto them, upon condition he might attain to the Popes seat, and dignity: which they promised him and fulfilled, but he enjoyed it not long, contrary to his expectation. For he being privily conueyed into a chamber in a certain place called Mount Cauillus, and there questioning with his Demon how long he should reign Pope, was answered that he should reign. xi. and. viij. which this ho¦lie father understood to be so many years: but he was deceived. For after he had reigned Pope xi. years and. viii. months, this Devil would no longer be without his pray, but straight came to the Popes court decked like a Courtier, and at the Popes chamber door did knock very loudly, saying that he must needs speak with his Fatherhood. The door being opened, he came and spake with the Pope, al others being bid to avoid. But they were so earnestly talking together, that many did rightly confessed that they were at contention. For the Pope stoutly affirmed his time not to be expired. For (said he) I had promised me. xix. years (for. xi. and. viij. is. xix.) and of these. xix. years, I have reigned but. xi. years and. viij. months. But this courtierlike Devil replied and said, that he mistook his words, for I said not (said he) xix. years, but I meant. xi. years and. viij. months, and therefore now thou must needs

dye. Whereat the Pope being abashed, fall to entreating, but all was in vain. For as soon as this Devil was gon, the soul of this Pope departed miserably from his body with horrible cries, fearful groninges, and deadly bewaylinges. In this sort dyed this horrible Sorcerer (as says Hieronimus Marius in his work entitled Eusebius Captiuus.) In which work the history of this wicked Pope Alexander is ve¦rye lively set forth, both as touching his wicked living and horrible facts. Whose terrible end may be an example to all Sorcerers, Cun¦jurors, and Witches.
Like unto him was Pope Gregory the. vij. otherwise called Hellybrand (Hildebrande I should say) who was also a great Sorcerer and Necromancer, as Benno the Cardinal doth declare in his work of this Gregories life. Saying that he also had a Familiar sprite, whereby he wrought many mischiefs in the common weal of Rome, as well for the satisfieng of his fleshly and beastly lust, as also for to increase his riches and dignity.

Platina also writes the like of Pope Iohn. 8. Pope Siluester, Pope Bennet. 8. with divers others, which were better practised in those devilish sciences, then in godly divinity.

Much like to these was Pope Paul the third, who as Sleidan declares, exercised sorcery and Witchcraft, and thereby committed. ij. horrible

murders, and poisoned his Mother and Nephew, that he might enjoy his inheritance the sooner. He poisoned also his own Sisters husband, that he more freelier might have her at his wicked commandment.
Pope Clement the. 8. was also of this Fraternitis, as in the Comentaries upon the Articles of the Doctors of Paris is declared: where his style is thus set forth: that he was a Bastard, Empoysoner, Homicide, Bawd, Symoniacke, Sodomite, Periurer, Whooremaister, Necromancer, Church robber, and a practiser of all kind of wickedness.

These with a great many more of that abominable sea of Rome were thus occupied, whose ends were most terrible, as their lives were most wicked. And these faculties their inferior sort, as Moonkes, Friars, and Priests also used, and would teach the same witchcraftes and Sorceries to such men and women, as they had committed evil with. As of late was confessed of a woman which used Witchcraft and Sorce¦rye, that she learned the same of a priest, whose harlot she had been many a year. I exhort all men therefore to flee from them and these devilish practises, as from Devils incarnate, least in following them with living here pleasantly a little while, they be tormented with thē in hell perpetually. Which God for his Christ's sake wythdraw and let now and ever.

Amen.

    Finis.




The examination of Iohn Walsh of Dorsetshere, touching Witchcraft and Sorcery.
THe Tewsday being the. xx. day of August. 1566. there was examined before master Thomas Williams (Cōmissary to the reverend Father in God William Bishop of Excester) one Iohn Walsh, upon certaiue Interrogatories touching Witchcraft, in the house of Master Thomas Sinkeler, keeper of the Sheriffs ward, in the presence of Iohn Butler, and Robert Buller Gentlemen, William Blachford and Iohn Bordfield.

He being first demanded of his habitation, he said that he dwelt in a pa¦rich called Netherberry in Dorsetshere.

Secondly, being asked whether he were ever sir Robert Draitons man, he said that he was retaining unto him by the space of. vii. years.


Thirdly, being demanded whether he did practise any Physic or Surgery: he said that he doth practise both, for the Tisicke and the Agues, and that he hath practised this Physic by the space of these. v. years, since his my¦ster sir Robert of Dreiton died.
Fourthly, being demanded of whom he learned his Physic and Surgery: he answered that he learned it of his master sir Robert of Dreiton.

Fiftly, being demanded whether he doth it by Art naturally, or else by any other secrete or privy means: He answered that he uses his Physic or Surgery by Art, naturally practised by him as he saith, & not by any other ill or secrete means. And yet he being demaūded whether he knew ye natural operatiō of ye herbs, as whither they wet hot or cold and in what degre they were hot or cold: he answered he could not tel

Sixtlye, he being demanded whether he had a Familiar or not: he answered and denied utterly that he had
none about him, neither in any other place of this world, either above the ground, or under the ground, either in any place secrete or open.
Seventhly, he being demaūded how he knows when any man is bewitched: He saith that he knew it partly by the Ferries, and saith that there be. iii. kinds of Ferries, white, greene, & black. Which when he is disposed to use, he speaks with them upon hills, where as there is great heaps of earth, as namely in Dorsetshiere. And between the hours of. xii. and one at noon, or at midnight he uses them. Whereof (he saith) the black Ferries be the worst. Also he saith that he had a book of his said master, which had great circles in it▪ wherein he would set two wax candels a cross of virgin wax, to raise the familiar spirit. Of whom he would then ask for any thing stolen, who did it, and where the thing stolen was left, and thereby did know, and also by the Ferries he knows who be bewitched.

Eightly, he being demanded whether he had ever any Familiar or no: he saith that he had one of his said master. Which Familiar (after his book of Circles was taken from him by one To¦bert Baber of Crokehorne, then being Constable, in the year. 1565) he could never do any thing touching his Familiar, nor the use thereof, but his Familiar did then depart from him, and will never come to him again, as he saith. And further he saith upon his oath, that his Familiar would sometime come unto him like a gray blackish Cvluer, and sometime like a branded Dog, and sometimes like a man in all proportions, saving that he had cloven feet.
Ninthly, he being demanded howe long he had the use of the Familiar: He said one year by his said masters life, and. iiii. years after his death. And whē he would call him for a horse stolen, or for any other matter wherein he would use him: he saith he must give him

some living thing, as a Chicken, a Cat, or a Dog. And further he saith he must give him two living things once a year. And at the first time when he had the Spirit, his said master did cause him to deliver him one drop of his blud, which blood the Sprite did take away upon his paw.
Tenthly, he saith that when the Familiar should doo any thing at his commandment, in going any arrant: he would not go, except first two wax candels of Virgin wax should first have been laid a cross upon the Circle, with a little Frankincense, and saint Iohns woorte, and once lighted, and so put out again: which Frankincense must be laid then at every end of the candel, as he saith a cross, and also a little Franken¦sense with saint Iohns woort burned upon the ground, or ever the Familiar would go, and that would force him to go the message, and return again at the hour appointed.

Eleuenthly, he being asked whether they yt do good to such as are bewitched, cannot also do hurt if they list. Whereto he answered, he that doth hurt, can never heal again any man, nor can at any time do good. Howbeit he saith that he which hath but the gift of healing, may do hurt if he list, but his gift of hey¦ling can never return again to any vther persons use.
Twelftly, he being demanded whether that any of the three kinds of Feities, when they did hurt, did it of their own malignity, or of the provocation of any wicked man? He answered that they doo hurt of their own malignity, and not provoked by any manna, and that they have power upon no man, but upon such as only doo want faith, which is ye cause why they have power more of some persons, then of any others. Furthermore, he being demanded to what end the Familiar did serve them? He answered that he serves


for no purpose, but to search out things theft stollē, & for no other purpose at al. He being further demanded to what end ye Spirits, in the likeness of Toads and the pictures of man or womā made in wax or clay, doo serve? He said, that Pictures made in wax, will cause the party (for whom it is made) to continue sick two whole years: because it will be two whole years ere the wax will be consumed. And as for the Pictures of clay, their confection is after this manner. They use to take the earth of a new made grave, the rib bone of a man or woman burned to ashes, if it be for a woman, they take the bone of a woman, if for a man, the bone of a man, and a black Spider, with an inner pith of an elder, tempered all in water, in the which water the said Toads must first be washed. And after al ceremonies ended, they put a prick, that is, a pyn or a thorne in any member where they wold have the party grieved. And if the said

prick be put to the hart, the party dies within nine days. Which Image they burn in the most moistest place they can find. And as touching the using of the Toads, the which he saith have several names: some they cal great Browning, or little Browning, or Bonne, great Tom Twite, or little Tō Twite, with other like names: Which Toads being called, the Witches strike with. ii. withie sperres on both sides of ye head, and saith to the Spirit their Pater noster backward, beginning at the end of the Pater noster, but they will never say their Creed. And when he is stricken, they command the Tod to hurt such a man or womā as he would have hurt. Whereto if he swell, he will goo where he is appointed, either to the dairy, brewhouse, or to the dry kill of malt, or to the Cattle in the field, to the stable, to the shepefold, or to any other like places, and so return again to his place. The bodies of men or women bee hurt

by the Images before named, & men's goods & Cattels be hurt by the Toads, in commanding and using them, as aforesaid, as he saith. And if the Tod called forth, as before said, do not swell, then will the Witch that uses them cal forth an other to do the act, which if he do not, then will they spy an other time when they may cause the party to be found lacking faith, or else to bee more void of grace, where he or they may be hurt. Furthermore he saith, that who so doth once a day say the Lords prayer and his Creed in perfect charity, the Witch shall have no power on his body or goods for that day.
Xiii. He being demanded whether that those which doo heal men or women, being hurt by Witches, can find out those Images under ground, where with they were tormented? He affirms they can

And. xiiii. he being demanded whether he him self either hath or had at
any time any such Tod, or that ever he made any such Images to hurt man, woman, or child? He affirms by the oath which he hath taken, that he never had such Toads, or ever made such Images.
And. xv. he being demanded, whether that ever he did any hurt to man, woman, or child, or to their goods or Cattels? He saith by the oath that he hath taken, that he never did any such hurt either in body or goods.