The wonderful discovery of witches in the county of Lancaster With the arraignment and trial of nineteen notorious witches, at the assizes and general gaol delivery, holden at the castle of Lancaster, upon Monday, the seventeenth of August last, 1612. Before Sir Iames Altham, and Sir Edward Bromley, Knights; barons of his Majesties Court of Exchequer: and justices of assize, over and terminor, and general gaol delivery in the circuit of the north parts. Together with the arraignment and trial of Jennet Preston, at the assizes holden at the castle of York, the seven and twentieth day of July last past, with her execution for the murder of Master Lister by witchcraft. Published and set forth by commandment of his Majesties justices of assize in the north parts. By Thomas Pots Esquier

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE, THOMAS, LORD KNYVET, BARON OF ESCRICK in the County of York, my very honourable good Lord and Master. AND TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE AND VERTVOVS LADY, THE Lady ELIZABETH KNYVET his Wife, my honourable good Lady and MISTRESS.
RIGHT HONOURABLE,
LET it stand (I beseech you) with your favours whom profession of the same true Religion towards God, and so great love hath united together in one, Jointly

 


to accept the Protection and Patronage of these my labours, which not their own worth hath encouraged, but your Worthiness hath enforced me to consecrate unto your Honours.
To you (Right Honourable my very good Lord) of Right doe they belong: for to whom shall J rather present the first fruits of my learning then to your Lordship: who nourished then both me and them, when there was scarce any being to me or them? And whose just and vprght carriage of causes, whose zeal to Justice and Honourable courtesy to all men, have purchased you a Reverend and worthy Respect of all men in all parts of this Kingdom, where you are known. And to your good Ladyship



they doe of great right belong likewise; Whose Religion, Justice, and Honourable admittance of my Unworthy Service to your Ladyship doe challenge at my hands the uttermost of what ever J may bee able to perform.
Here is nothing of my own act worthy to bee commended to your Honours, it is the work, of those Reverend Magistrates, His Majesties Justices of Assizes in the North parts, and no more then a Particular Declaration of the proceedings of Justice in those parts. Here shall you behold the Justice of this Land, truly administered, Proemium & Poenam, Mercy and Judgment, freely and indifferently bestowed and inflicted; And above all

 


things to bee remembered, the excellent care of these Judges in the Trial of offenders.
It hath pleased them out of their respect to me to impose this work upon me, and according to my understanding, I have taken pains to finish, and now confirmed by their Judgment to publish the same, for the benefit of my Country. That the example of these convicted upon their own Examinations, Confessions, and Evidence at the Bar, may work good in others, Rather by with-holding them from, then emboldening them to, the Achieving such desperate acts as these or the like.

These are some part of the fruits of my time spent in the Service of my Country,



Since by your Grave and Reverend Counsel (my Good Lord) I reduced my wavering and wandering thoughts to a more quiet harbour of repose.
If it please your Honours to give them your Honourable respect, the world may judge them the more worthy of acceptance, to whose various censures they are now exposed.

God of Heaven whose eyes are on them that fear him, to bee their Protector and guide, behold your Honours with the eye of favour, be evermore your strong hold, and your great reward, and bless you with blessings in this life, External and Internal, Temporal and Spiritual, and with Eternal happiness in the World to come: to which I commend your Honours;

 


And rest both now and ever,
From my Lodging in Chancery Lane, the sixteenth of November 1612.
Your Honours humbly devoted Servant, Thomas Pots.



 


Upon the Arraignment and trial of these Witches at the last Assizes and General Gaole-deliuerie, holden at Lancaster, wee found such apparent matters against them, that we thought it necessary to publish them to the World, and thereupon imposed the labour of this Work upon this Gentleman, by reason of his place, being a Clerk at that time in Court, employed in the Arraignment and trial of them.

Ja. Altham. Adieu. Bromley.



 


AFter he had taken great pains to finish it, J took upon me to reuise and correct it, that nothing might posse but matter of Fact, apparent against them by record. It is very little he hath inserted, and that necessary, to show what their offences were, what people, and of what condition they were: The whole proceedings and Evidence against them, J find upon examination carefully set forth, and truly reported, and judge the work fit and worthy to be published.

Edward Bromley.




Faults escaped in the Printing.
Page, C 3: M. Banister, for Banister, brough, for brought. Page, E 2 This people, for these. Page, H Here they parted, for there. page, K 2 these, for this hellish. page, S 3 In the Verdict of Life and Death, Not guilty, for guilty. page, S 3 one Horse or Mare, for one Mare in the Indictment. page eadem, for the Trial of her life, read for the trial of her offence. page, T their view, for your view.

Gentle Reader, although the care of this Gentleman the Author, was great to examine and publish this his work perfect according to the Honourable testimony of the Judges, yet some faults are committed by me in the Printing, and yet not many, being a work done in such great haste, at the end of a Term, which I pray you, with your favour to excuse.

 







A particular Declaration of the most barbarous and damnable Practises. Murders, wicked and devilish Conspiracies, practised and executed by the most dangerous and malicious Witch Elizabeth Southerns alias Demdike, of the Forest of Pendle in the County of Lancaster Widow, who died in the Castle at Lancaster before she came to receive her trial.
THough public Justice hath passed at these Assizes upon the Capital offenders, and after the Arraignment & trial of them, Judgment being given, due and timely Execution succeeded; which doth import and give the greatest satisfaction that can be, to all men; yet because upon the carriage, and event of this business, the Eyes of all the parts of Lancashire, and other Counties in the North parts thereunto adjoining were bent: And so infinite a multitude came to the Arraignment & trial of these Witches at Lancaster, the number of them being known to exceed all others at any time heretofore, at one time to be indicted, arraigned, and receive their trial, especially for so many Murders, Conspiracies, Charms, Meetings, hellish and damnable practises, so apparent upon their own examinations & confessions. These my honourable & worthy Lords, the Judges of Assise, upon

 


great consideration, thought to necessary & profitable, to publish to the whole world, their most barbarous and damnable practises, with the direct proceedings of the Court against them, as well for that there doe posse divers uncertain reports and relations of such Evidences, as was publicly given against them at their Arraignment. As for that divers came to prosecute against many of them that were not found guilty, and so rest very discontented, and not satisfied. As also for that it is necessary for men to know and understand the means whereby they work their mischief, the hidden mysteries of their devilish and wicked Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, the better to prevent and avoid the danger that may ensue. And lastly, who were the principal authors and actors in this late woeful and lamentable Tragedy, wherein so much Blood was spilt.
Therefore I pray you give me leave, (with your patience and favour,) before I proceed to the Indictment, Arraignment, and Trial of such as were Prisoners in the Castle, to lay open the life and death of this damnable and malicious Witch, of so long continuance (old Demdike) of whom our whole business hath such dependence, that without the particular Declaration and Record of her Evidence, with the circumstances, wee shall never bring any thing to good perfection: for from this Sink of villainy and mischief, have all the rest proceeded; as you shall have them in order.

She was a very old woman, about the age of Foure-score years, and had been a Witch for fifty years. She dwelt in the Forest of Pendle, a vast place, fit for her profession: What she committed in her time, no man knows.

Thus lived she securely for many years, brought up



her own Children, instructed her Graund-children, and took great care and pains to bring them to be Witches. She was a general agent for the Devil in all these parts: no man escaped her, or her Furies, that ever gave them any occasion of offence, or denied them any thing they stood need of: And certain it is, no man near them, was secure or free from danger.
But God, who had in his divine providence provided to cut them off, and root them out of the Commonwealth, so disposed above, that the Justices of those parts, understanding by a general charm and muttering, the great and universal resort to Maulking Tower, the common opinion, with the report of these suspected people, the complaint of the Kings subjects for the loss of their Children, Friends, Goods, and Cattle, (as there could not be so great Fire without some Smoke,) sent for some of the Country, and took great pains to enquire after their proceedings, and courses of life.

In the end, Roger Novel Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices in these parts, a very religious honest Gentleman, painful in the service of his Country: whose fame for this great service to his Country, shall live after him, took upon him to enter into the particular examination of these suspected persons: And to the honour of God, and the great comfort of all his Country, made such a discovery of them in order, as the like hath not been heard of: which for your better satisfaction. I have here placed in order against her, as they are upon Record, amongst the Records of the Crown at Lancaster, certified by M. Novel, and others.

 



The voluntary Confession and Examination of Elizabeth Southerns alias Demdike, taken at the Fence in the Forest of Pendle in the County of Lancaster. The second day of April, Anno{que} Regni Regis Iacobi Anglia. &c. Decimo, et Scotiae Quadragesimo quinto; Before Roger Novel of Read Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of the peace within the said County. Viz.
THe said Elizabeth Southerns confesses, and saith; That about twenty years past, as she was coming homeward from begging, there met her this Examinate near unto a Stonepit in Gouldshey, in the said Forest of Pendle, a Spirit or Devil in the shape of a Boy, the one half of his Coat black, and the other browne, who bade this Examinate stay, saying to her, that if she would give him her Soul, she should have any thing that she would request. Whereupon this Examinat demanded his name? and the Spirit answered, his name was Tibb: and so this Examinate in hope of such gain as was promised by the said Devil or Tibb, was contented to give her Soul to the said Spirit: And for the space of five of six years next after, the said Spirit or Devil appeared at sundry times unto her this Examinate about Day-light Gate, always bidding her stay, and asking her this Examinate what she would



have or doe? To whom this Examinate replied, Nay nothing: for she this Examinate said, she wanted nothing yet. And so about the end of the said six years, upon a Sabboth day in the morning, this Examinate having a little Child upon her knee, and she being in a slumber, the said Spirit appeared unto her in the likeness of a browne Dog, forcing himself to her knee, to get blood under her left Arm: and she being without any apparel saving her Smock, the said Devil did get blood under her left arm. And this Examinate awaking, said, Iesus save my Child; but had no power, nor could not say, Iesus save her self: whereupon the Browne Dog vanished out of this Examinats sight: after which, this Examinate was almost stark mad for the space of eight weeks.
And upon her examination, she further confesses, and saith. That a little before Christmas last, this Examinates Daughter having been to help Richard Baldwyns Folks at the Mill: This Examinates Daughter did bid her this Examinate go to the said Baldwyns house, and ask him something for her helping of his Folks at the Mill, (as aforesaid:) and in this Examinates going to the said Baldwyns house, and near to the said house, she met with the said Richard Baldwin; Which Baldwin said to this Examinate, and the said Alison Device (who at that time led this Examinate, being blind) get out of my ground Whores and Witches, I will burn the one of you, and hang the other. To whom this Examinate answered: I care not for thee, hang thy self: Presently whereupon, at this Examinates going over the next hedge, the said Spirit or Devil called Tibb, appeared unto this Examinat, and said, Revenge thee of him. To whom, this Examinate said again to the said Spirit. Revenge thee either of him, or his. And so the said Spirit vanished out of her sight, and she

 


never saw him since.
And further this Examinate confesses, and saith, that the speediest way to take a mans life away by Witchcraft, is to make a Picture of Clay, like unto the shape of the person whom they mean to kill, & dry it thoroughly: and when they would have them to be ill in any one place more then an other; then take a Thorne or Pin, and prick it in that part of the Picture you would so have to be ill: and when they would have any part of the Body to consume away, then take that part of the Picture, and burn it. And when they would have the whole body to consume away, then take the remnant of the said Picture, and burn it: and so thereupon by that means, the body shall die.





The Confession and Examination of Anne Whittle alias Chattox, being Prisoner at Lancaster; taken the 19. day of May, Anno{que} Regni Regis Iacobi Anglia, Decimo: ac Scotie Quadragesimo quinto; Before William Sands Mayor of the Borough town of Lancaster. Iames Anderton of Clayton, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the same County, and Thomas Cowell one of his Majesties Coroners in the said County of Lancaster. Viz.
FIrst, the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, saith, that about fourteen years past she entered, through the wicked persuasions and counsel of Elizabeth Southerns, alias Demdike, and was seduced to condescend & agree to become subject unto that devilish abominable profession of Witchcraft: Soon after which, the Devil appeared unto her in the liknes of a Man, about midnight, at the house of the said Demdike: and thereupon the said Demdike and she, went forth of the said house unto him; whereupon the said wicked Spirit moved this Examinate, that she would become his Subject, and give her Soul unto him: the which at first, she refused to assent unto; but after, by the great persuasions made by the said Demdike, she yielded to be at his commandment and appointment: whereupon the said wicked Spirit then said unto her, that he must have one part of her body for him to suck upon; the which she denied then to grant unto him; and withal asked

 


him, what part of her body he would have for that use; who said, he would have a place of her right side near to her ribs, for him to suck upon: whereunto she assented.
And she further saith, that at the same time, there was a thing in the likeness of a spotted Bitch, that came with the said Spirit unto the said Demdike, which then did speak unto her in this Examinates hearing, and said, that she should have Gould, Silver, and worldly Wealth, at her will. And at the same time she saith, there was victuals, viz. Flesh, Butter, Cheese, Bread, and Drink, and bid them eat enough. And after their eating, the Devil called Fancy, and the other Spirit calling himself Tibbe, carried the remnant away: And she says, that although they did eat, they were never the fuller, nor better for the same; and that at their said Banquet, the said Spirits gave them light to see what they did, although they neither had fire nor Candle light; and that they were both she Spirits, and Devils.

And being further examined how many sundry Persons have been bewitched to death, and by whom they were so bewitched: She saith, that one Robert Nuter, late of the Greene-head in Pendle, was bewitched by this Examinate, the said Demdike, and Widow Lomshawe, (late of Burneley) now deceased.

And she further saith, that the said Demdike showed her, that she had bewitched to death, Richard Ashton, Son of Richard Ashton of Downeham Esquire.





The Examination of Alison Device, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster Spinster, taken at Read in the said County of Lancaster, the xiij??? day of March, Anno Regni Jacobi Anglia. &c. Nono: et Scotiae xlv. Before Roger Novel of Read aforesaid Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of the Peace within the said County, against Elizabeth Southerns, alias Demdike her Graund-mother. ??iz.
THe said Alison Device saith, that about two years agon, her Graund-mother (called Elizabeth Southerns, alias old Demdike) did sundry times in going or walking together as they went begging, persuade and advise this Examinate to let a Devil or Familiar appear unto her; and that she this Examinate, would let him suck at some part of her, and she might have, and doe what she would.

And she further saith, that one Iohn Nutter of the Bulhole in Pendle aforesaid, had a Cow which was sick, & requested this examinats Grand-mother to amend the said Cow; and her said Graund-mother said she would, and so her said Graund-mother about ten of the clock in the night, desired this examinate to lead her forth; which this Examinate did, being then blind: and her Graund-mother did remain about half an hour forth: and this Examinates sister did fetch her in again; but what she did when she was so forth, this Examinate cannot tell. But the next

 


morning this Examinate heard that the said Cow was dead. And this Examinate verily thinks, that her said Graund-mother did bewitch the said Cow to death.
And further, this Examinate saith, that about two years agon, this Examinate having gotten a Piggin full of blew Milk by begging, brought it into the house of her Graund-mother, where (this Examinate going forth presently, and staying about half an hour) there was Butter to the quantity of a quart of a pound in the said milk, and the quantity of the said milk still remaining; and her Graund-mother had no Butter in the house when this Examinate went forth: duering which time, this Examinates Graund-mother still lay in her bed.

And further this Examinate saith, that Richord Baldwin of Weeded within the Forest of Pendle, about 2. years ago, fell out with this Examinates Graund-mother, & so would not let her come upon his Land: and about four or five days then next after, her said Graund-mother did request this Examinate to lead her forth about ten of the clock in the night: which this Examinate accordingly did, and she stayed forth then about an hour, and this Examinates sister fetched her in again. And this Examinate heard the next morning, that a woman Child of the said Richard Baldwins was fallen sick; and as this Examinate did then hear, the said Child did languish afterwards by the space of a year, or thereabouts, and dyed: And this Examinate verily thinks, that her said Graund-mother did bewitch the said Child to death.

And further, this Examinate saith, that she heard her said Graund-mother say presently after her falling out with the said Baldwin, she would pray for the said Baldwin both still and loud: and this Examinate heard her curse the said Baldwin sundry times.





The Examination of Iames Device of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster Labourer, taken the 27. day of April, Anno{que} Regni Regis Iacobi, Anglia, &c. Decimo: ac Scotie Quadragesimo quinto: Before Roger Novel, and Nicholas Banister Esq, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County.
THE said Examinate Iames Device saith, that about a month ago, as this Examinate was coming towards his Mothers house, and at day-gate of the same night,[1] this Examinate met a browne Dog coming from his Graund-mothers house, about ten Roods distant from the same house: and about two or three nights after, that this Examinate heard a voice of a great number of Children screiking and crying pitifully, about day-light gate; and likewise, about ten Roods distant of this Examinates said Graund-mothers house. And about five nights then next following, presently after daylight, within 20. Roods of the said Elizabeth Southerns house, he heard a foul yelling like unto a great number of Cattes: but what they were, this Examinate cannot tell. And he further saith, that about three nights after that, about midnight of the same, there came a thing, and lay upon him very heavily about an hour, and went then from him out of his Chamber window, coloured black, and about the bigness of a Hare or Cat. And he further saith, that about S. Peters day last, one Henry Bullock came to the said Elizabeth Southerns house, and said, that her Graund-child Alison Device, had bewitched a Child of his, and desired her that she would go with him to his house; which accordingly she did: And thereupon she the said Alison fell down on her knees, & asked the said Bullock forgiveness, and confessed to him, that she had bewitched the said child, as this Examinate heard his said sister confess unto him this Examinate.

 



The Examination of Elizabeth Device, Daughter of old Demdike, taken at Read before Roger Novel Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the County of Lancaster the xxx. day of March, Anno{que} Regni Jacobi Decimo, ac Scotie xlv.
THe said Elizabeth Device the Examinate, saith, that the said Elizabeth Southerns, alias Demdike, hath had a place on her left side by the space of forty years, in such sort, as was to be seen at this Examinates Examination taking, at this present time.

Here this worthy Justice M. Novel, out of these particular Examinations, or rather Accusations, finding matter to proceed; and having now before him old Demdike, old Chattox, Alison Device, and Redferne both old and young, Rios confitentes, et Accusantes Inuicem. About the second of April last past, committed and sent them away to the Castle at Lancaster, there to remain until the coming of the Kings Majesties Justices of Assise, then to receive their trial.





But here they had not stayed a week, when their Children and Friends being abroad at liberty, laboured a special meeting at Milking Tower in the Forest of Pendle, upon Good-fryday, within a week after they were, committed, of all the most dangerous, wicked, and damnable Witches in the County far and near. Upon Good-fryday they met, according to solemn appointment, solemnised this great Festival day according to their former order, with great cheer, merry-company, and much conference.
In the end, in this great Assembly, it was decreed M. Couell by reason of his Office, shall be slain before the next Assizes: The Castle of Lancaster to be blown up, and aid and assistance to be sent to kill M. Lister, with his old Enemy and wicked Neighbour Jennet Preston; with some other such like practices: as upon their Arraignment and Trial, are particularly set forth, and given in evidence against them.

This was not so secret, but some notice of it came to M. Novel, and by his great pains taken in the Examination of Jennet Device, al their practises are now made known. Their purpose to kill M. Couell, and blow up the Castle, is prevented. All their Murders, Witchcraftes, Enchantments, Charms, & Sorceries, are discovered; and even in the midst of their Consultations, they are all confounded, and arrested by Gods Justice: brough before M. Novel, and M. Bauester, upon their voluntary confessions, Examinations, and other Evidence accused, and so by them committed to the Castle: So as now both old and young, have taken up their lodgings with M. Couell, until the next Assizes, expecting their Trial and deliverance, according to the Laws provided for such like.

 


In the mean time, M. Novel having knowledge by this discovery of their meeting at Malkeing Tower, and their resolution to execute mischief, takes great pains to apprehend such as were at liberty, and prepared Evidence against all such as were in question for Witches.
Afterwards sends some of these Examinations, to the Assizes at York, to be given in Evidence against Jennet Preston, who for the murder of M. Lister, is condemned and executed.

The Circuit of the North parts being now almost ended.


The 16. of August.
Upon Sunday in the after noon, my honourable Lords the Judges of Assise, came from Kendall to Lancaster.

Whereupon M. Couell presented unto their Lordships a Calender, containing the Names of the Prisoners committed to his charge, which were to receive their Trial at the Assizes: Out of which, we are only to deal with the proceedings against Witches, which were as follows. Viz.





The Names of the Witches committed to the Castle of Lancaster.
Elizabeth Southerns. alias Old Demdike. Who dyed before she came to her trial.
Anne Whittle, alias Chattox,
Elizabeth Device, Daughter of old Demdike.
Iames Device, Son of Elizabeth Device.
Anne Readfearne, Daughter of Anne Chattox.
Alice Nutter.
Katherine Hewytte.
Iohn Bulcocke.
Iaue Bulcocke.
Alison Device, Daughter of Elizabeth Device.
Isabel Robey.
Margaret Pearson.

The Witches of Salmesbury.
Jennet Bierley.
Alan Bierley.
Iane Southworth.
Iohn Ramesden.
Elizabeth Astley.
Alice Gray.
Isabel Sidegraues.
Lawrence Hay.
The next day, being Monday, the 17. of August, were the Assizes holden in the Castle of Lancaster, as follows.

 



PLACITA CORONA,  Lancasterium.
DEliberatio Gaolae Domini Regis Castri sui Lancastrii ac Prisonarioru?? in eadem existent. Tent apud Lancasterium in com. Lancasterij. Die Lunae, Decimo septimo die Augusti, Anno Regni Domini nostri Iacobi dei gratia Anglia, Franciae, et Hiberniae, Regis fidei defensoris; Decimo: et Scotiae Quadragesimo sexto; Coram Iacobo Altham Milit. la Baronum Scaccarij Domini Regis, et Edwardo Bromley Milit. altero Barono, eiusdem Scaccarij Domini Regis: ac Iustic, Domini Regis apud Lancastr.

Upon the Tewesday in the after noon, the Judges according to the course and order, divided them selves, whereupon my Lord Bromley, one of his Maiestices Judges of Assise coming into the Hall to proceed with the Pleaes of the Crown, & the Arraignment and Trial of Prisoners, commanded a general Proclamation, that all Justices of Peace that had taken any Recognisaunces, or Examinations of Prisoners, should make Return of them: And all such as were bound to prosecute Indictments, and give Evidence against Witches, should proceed, and give attendance: For he now intended to proceed to the Arraignment and Trial of VVitches.

After which, the Court being set, M. Sherieffe was commanded to present his Prisoners before his Lordship, and prepare a sufficient Jury of Gentlemen for life and death. But here we want old Demdike, who dyed in the Castle before she came to her Trial.





Here you may not expect the exact order of the Assizes, with the Proclamations, and other solemnities belonging to so great a Court of Justice??? but the proceedings against the Witches, who are now upon their deliverance here in order as they came to the Bar, with the particular points of Evidence against them: which is the labour and work we now intend (by Gods grace) to perform as we may, to your general contentment.
Whereupon, the first of all these, Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, was brought to the Bar: against whom wee are now ready to proceed.

 



The Arraignment and Trial of Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, Widow; about the age of Fourscore years, or thereabouts.

Anne Whittle, alias Chattox.
IF in this damnable course of life, and offences, more horrible and odious, then any man is able to express: any man living could lament the estate of any such like upon earth: The example of this poor creature, would have moved pity, in respect of her great contrition and repentance, after she was committed to the Castle at Lancaster, until the coming of his Majesties Judges of Assise. But such was the nature of her offences, & the multitude of her crying sins, as it took away all sense of humanity. And the repetition of her hellish practises, and Revenge; being the chiefest things wherein she always took great delight, together with a particular declaration of the Murders she had committed, laid open to the world, and given in Evidence against her at the time of her Arraignment and



Trial; as certainly it did beget contempt in the Audience, and such as she never offended.
This Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, was a very old withered spent & decrepit creature, her sight almost gone: A dangerous Witch, of very long continuance; always opposite to old Demdike: For whom the one favoured,[2] the other hated deadly: and how they envy and accuse one an other, in their Examinations, may appear.

In her Witchcraft, always more ready to doe mischief to men's goods, then themselves. Her lips ever chattering and walking: but no man knew what. She lived in the Forest of Pendle, amongst this wicked company of dangerous Witches. Yet in her Examination and Confession, she dealt always very plainly and truly: for upon a special occasion being oftentimes examined in open Court, she was never found to vary, but always to agree in one, and the self same thing.

I place her in order, next to that wicked fire-brand of mischief, old Demdike, because from these two, sprung all the rest in order: and were the Children and Friends, of these two notorious VVitches.

Many things in the discovery of them, shall be very worthy your observation. As the times and occasions to execute their mischief. And this in general: the Spirit could never hurt, till they gave consent.

And, but that it is my charge, to set forth a particular Declaration of the Evidence against them, upon their Arraignment and Trial; with their Devilish practises, consultations, meetings, and murders committed by them,

 


in such sort, as they were given in Evidence against them??? for the which, I shall have matter upon Record. I could make a large Comentarie of them: But it is my humble duty, to observe the Charge and Commandment of these my Honourable good Lords the Judges of Assise, and not to exceed the limits of my Commission. Wherefore I shall now bring this ancient Witch, to the due course of her Trial, in order. viz.

Indictment.
THis Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, of the Forest of Pendle in the County of Lancaster Widow, being Indicted, for that she feloniously had practised, used, and exercised divers wicked and devilish Arts called Witchcraftes, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in and upon one Robert Nutter of Greenehead, in the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lanc: and by force of the same Witchcraft, feloniously the said Robert Nutter had killed, Country Pacem, &c. Being at the Bar, was arraigned.

To this Indictment, upon her Arraignment, she pleaded, Not guilty: and for the trial of her life, put her self upon God and her Country.

Whereupon my Lord Bromley commanded M. Sheriff of the County of Lancaster in open Court, to return a Jury of worthy sufficient Gentlemen of understanding, to posse between our sovereign Lord the Kings Majesty, and her, and others the Prisoners, upon their lives and deaths; as hereafter follow in order: who were afterwards sworn, according to the form and order of



the Court, the Prisoners being admitted to their lawfully challenges.
Which being done, and the Prisoner at the Bar ready to receive her Trial: M. Novel, being the best instructed of any man, of all the particular points of Evidence against her, and her fellows, having taken great pains in the proceedings against her and her fellows; Humbly prayed, her own voluntary Confession and Examination taken before him, when she was apprehended and committed to the Castle of Lancaster for Witchcraft; might openly be published against her: which hereafter follows. Viz.


The voluntary Confession and Examination of Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, taken at the Fence in the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster; Before Roger Novel Esq, one of the Kings Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster. Viz.
THe said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, upon her Examination, voluntarily confesses, and saith, That about fourteen or fifteen years ago, a thing like a Christian man for four years together, did sundry times come to this Examinate, and requested this Examinate to give him her Soul: And in the end, this Examinate was contented to give him her said Soul, she being then in her own house, in the Forest of Pendle; whereupon the Devil then in the shape of a Man, said to this Examinate: Thou shalt want nothing; and be revenged of whom thou list. And the Devil then further commanded

 


this Examinate, to call him by the name of Fancy; and when she wanted any thing, or would be revenged of any, call on Fancy, and he would be ready. And the said Spirit or Devil, did appear unto her not long after, in mans likeness, and would have had this Examinate to have consented, that he might hurt the wife of Richard Baldwin of Pendle; But this Examinate would not then consent unto him: For which cause, the said Devil would then have bitten her by the arm; and so vanished away, for that time.
And this Examinate further saith; that Robert Nutter did desire her Daughter one Redfearns wife, to have his pleasure of her, being then in Redfearns house: but the said Redfearns wife denied the said Robert; whereupon the said Robert seeming to be greatly displeased therewith, in a great anger took his Horse, and went away, saying in a great rage, that if ever the Ground came to him, she should never dwell upon his Land. Whereupon this Examinate called Fancy to her; who came to her in the likeness of a Man in a parcel of Ground called, The Land; asking this Examinate, what she would have him to doe? And this Examinate bade him go revenge her of the said Robert Nutter. After which time, the said Robert Nutter lived about a quarter of a year, and then dyed.

And this Examinate further saith, that Elizabeth Nutter, wife to old Robert Nutter, did request this Examinate, and Loomeshaws wife of Burly, and one Iane Boothman, of the same, who are now both dead, (which time of request, was before that Robert Nutter desired the company of Redfearns wife) to get young Robert Nutter his death, if



they could; all being together then at that time, to that end, that if Robert were dead, then the Women their Cousins might have the Land: By whose persuasion, they all consented unto it. After which time, this Examinates Son in law Thomas Redfearne, did persuade this Examinate, not to kill or hurt the said Robert Nutter; for which persuasion, the said Loomeshaws Wife, had like to have killed the said Redfearne, but that one M. Baldwin (the late Schoolmaster at Coulne) did by his learning, stay the said Loomeshaws wife, and therefore had a Capon from Redfearne.
And this Examinate further saith, that she thinks the said Loomeshaws wife, and lane Boothman, did what they could to kill the said Robert Nutter, as well as this Examinate did.

 






The Examination of ELIZABETH SOTHERNES, alias OLD DEMBDIKE: taken at the Fence in the Forest of Pendle in the County of Lancaster, the day and year aforesaid.

Before, ROGER NOVEL Esquire, one of the Kings Majesties Justices of Peace in the said County, against ANNE WHITTLE, alias CHATTOX.
THe said Elizabeth Southerns saith upon her Examination, that about half a year before Robert Nutter died, as this Examinate thinks, this Examinate went to the house of Thomas Redfearne, which was about Mid-sommer, as this Examinate remembers it. And there within three yards of the East end of the said house, she saw the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, and Anne Redferne wife of the said Thomas Redferne, and Daughter of the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox: the one on the one side of the Ditch, and the other on the other: and two Pictures of Clay or Marle lying by them: and the third Picture the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, was making: and the said Anne Redferne her said Daughter, wrought her Clay or Marle to make the third picture withal. And this Examinate passing by them, the said Spirit, called Tibb, in the shape of a black Cat, appeared unto her this Examinate, and said, turn back again, and doe as they doe: To whom this Examinate said, what are they doing? whereunto the said Spirit said; they are making three Pictures: whereupon she asked whose pictures they were? whereunto the said Spirit said; they

 


are the pictures of Christopher Nutter, Robert Nutter, and Marie, wife of the said Robert Nutter: But this Examinate denying to go back to help them to make the Pictures aforesaid; the said Spirit seeming to be angry, therefore shove or pushed this Examinate into the ditch, and so shed the Milk which this Examinate had in a Can or Kit: and so thereupon the Spirit at that time vanished out of this Examinates sight: But presently after that, the said Spirit appeared to this Examinate again in the shape of a Hare, and so went with her about a quarter of a mile, but said nothing to this Examinate, nor she to it.

The Examination and evidence of IAMES ROBINSON, taken the day and year aforesaid. Before ROGER NOVEL Esquire aforesaid, against ANNE WHITTLE, alias CHATTOX, Prisoner at the Bar as follows. viz.
THe said Examinate saith, that about six years ago, Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, was hired by this Examinates wife to card wool; and so upon a Friday and Saturday, she came and carded wool with this Examinates wife, and so the Monday then next after she came likewise to card: and this Examinates wife having newly tuned drink into Stands, which stood by the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox: and the said Anne Whittle taking a Dish or Cup, and drawing drink several times:



and so never after that time, for some eight or nine weeks, they could have any drink, but spoiled, and as this Examinate thinks was by the means of the said Chattox. And further he saith, that the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, and Anne Redferne her said Daughter, are commonly reputed and reported to bee Witches. And he also saith, that about some eighteen years ago, he dwelled with one Robert Nutter the elder, of Pendle aforesaid. And that young Robert Nutter, who dwelled with his Grand-father, in the Summer time, he fell sick, and in his said sickness he did several times complain, that he had harm by them: and this Examinate asking him what he meant by that word Them, He said, that he verily thought that the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, and the said Redfernes wife, had bewitched him: and the said Robert Nutter shortly after, being to go with his then Master, called Sir Richard Shattleworth, into Wales, this Examinate heard him say before his then going, unto the said Thomas Redferne, that if ever he came again he would get his Father to put the said Redferne out of his house, or he himself would pull it down; to whom the said Redferne replied, saying; when you come back again you will be in a better mind: but he never came back again, but died before Candlemas in Cheshire, as he was coming homeward.
Since the voluntary confession and examination of a Witch, doth exceed all other evidence, I spare to trouble you with a multitude of Examinations, or Depositions of any other witnesses, by reason this bloody fact, for the Murder of Robert Nutter, upon so small an occasion, as to threaten to take away

 


his own land from such as were not worthy to inhabit or dwell upon it, is now made by that which you have already heard, so apparent, as no indifferent man will question it, or rest unsatisfied: I shall now proceed to set forth unto you the rest of her actions, remaining upon Record. And how dangerous it was for any man to live near this people, to give them any occasion of offence, I leave it to your good consideration.

The Examination and voluntary Confession of ANNE WHITTLE, alias CHATTOX, taken at the Fence in the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, the second day of April, Anno Regni Regis IACOBI Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, decimo, & Scotiae xlv. Before ROGER NOVVEL, Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the County of Lancaster.
SHe the said Examinate saith, That she was sent for by the wife of Iohn Moore, to help drink that was forspoken or bewitched: at which time she used this Prayer for the amending of it, viz.


A Charm.
Three Biters hast thou bitten,
The Hart, ill Eye, ill Tongue:




Three bitter shall be thy Boot,
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost
a Gods name.
Five Pater-nosters, five Auies,
and a Creed,
In worship of five wounds
of our Lord.
After which time that this Examinate had used these prayers, and amended her drink, the said Moeres wife did chide this Examinate, and was grieved at her.

And thereupon this Examinate called for her Devil Fancy, and bad him go bite a browne Cow of the said Moors by the head, and make the Cow go mad: and the Devil then, in the likeness of a browne Dog, went to the said Cow, and bit her: which Cow went mad accordingly, and died within six weeks next after, or thereabouts.

Also this Examinate saith, That she perceiving Anthony Nutter of Pendle to favour Elizabeth Sothernes, alias Dembdike, she, this Examinate, called Fancy to her, (who appeared like a man) and bad him go kill a Cow of the said Anthonies; which the said Devil did, and that Cow died also.

And further this Examinate saith, That the Devil, or Fancy, hath taken most of her sight away from her. And further this Examinate saith, That in Summer last, save one, the said Devil, or Fancy, came upon this Examinate in the night time: and at diverse and sundry times in the likeness of a Bear, gaping as though he would have wearied this Examinate. And the last time of all she, this Examinate, saw him, was upon

 


Thursday last year but one, next before Midsummer day, in the evening, like a Bear, and this Examinate would not then speak unto him, for the which the said Devil pulled this Examinate down.

The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, son of ELIZABETH DEVICE, taken the seven and twentieth day of April, Anno{que} Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, &c. Decimo ac Scotiae xlv. Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace within the said County. viz.
ANd further saith, That twelve years ago, the said Anne Chattox at a Burial at the new Church in Pendle, did take three scalps of people, which had been buried, and then cast out of a grave, as she the said Chattox told this Examinate; and took eight teeth out of the said Scalps, whereof she kept four to her self, and gave other four to the said Demdike, this Examinates Grand-mother: which fore-teeth now showed to this Examinate, are the fore-teeth that the said Chattox gave to his said Grand-mother, as aforesaid; which said teeth have ever since been kept, until now found by the said Henry Hargreiues & this Examinate, at the West-end of this Examinates Grand-mothers house, and there buried in the earth, and a Picture of Clay there likewise found by them, about half a yard over in the



earth, where the said teeth lay, which said picture so found, was almost withered away, and was the Picture of Anne, Anthony Nutters daughter; as this Examinates Grand-mother told him.

The Examination of ALLIZON DEVICE daughter of ELIZABETH DEVICE: Taken at Read, in the County of Lancaster, the thirtieth day of March, Anno{que} Reg. Regis IACOBI nuns Anglia, &c. Decimo, & Scotiae Quadragesimo quinto. Before ROGER NOVVEL of Read aforesaid, Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of the Peace, within the said County.
THis Examinate saith, That about eleven years ago, this Examinate and her mother had their firehouse broken, and all, or the most part of their linen clothes & half a peck of cut oat-meale, and a quantity of meal gone, all which was worth twenty shillings or above: and upon a Sunday then next after, this Examinate did take a band and a coif, parcel of the goods aforesaid, upon the daughter of Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, and claimed them to be parcel of the goods stolen, as aforesaid.

And this Examinate further saith, That her father, called Iohn Device, being afraid, that the said Anne Chattox should doe him or his goods any hurt by Witchcraft;

 


did covenant with the said Anne, that if she would hurt neither of them, she should yearly have one Aghen-dole of meal; which meal was yearly paid, until the year which her father died in, which was about eleven years since: Her father upon his then-death-bed, taking it that the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, did bewitch him to death, because the said meal was not paid the last year.
And she also saith, That about two years agony, this Examinate being in the house of Anthony Nutter of Pendle aforesaid, and being then in company with Anne Nutter, daughter of the said Anthony: the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, came into the said Anthony Nutters house, and seeing this Examinate, and the said Anne Nutter laughing and saying, that they laughed at her the said Chattox: well said then (says Anne Chattox) I will be meet with the one of you. And upon the next day after she the said Anne Nutter fell sick and within three weeks after died. And further, this Examinate saith, That about two years ago, she, this Examinate, hath heard, That the said Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, was suspected for bewitching the drink of Iohn Moore of Higham Gentleman: and not long after, she this Examinate heard the said Chattox say, that she would meet with the said Iohn Moore, or his. Whereupon a child of the said Iohn Moors, called Iohn, fell sick, and languished about half a year, and then died; during which languishing, this Examinate saw the said Chattox sitting in her own garden, and a picture of Clay like unto a child in her Apron; which this Examinate espying, the said Anne Chattox would have hid with her Apron: and this Examinate declaring the same to her mother, her



mother thought it was the picture of the said Iohn Moors child.
And she this Examinate further saith, That about six or seven years ago, the said Chattox did fall out with one Hugh Moore of Pendle, as aforesaid, about certain cattle of the said Moors, which the said Moore did charge the said Chattox to have bewitched: for which the said Chattox did curse and worry the said Moore, and said she would be Revenged of the said Moore: whereupon the said Moore presently fell sick, and languished about half a year, and then died. Which Moore upon his death-bed said, that the said Chattox had bewitched him to death. And she further saith, That about six years ago, a daughter of the said Anne Chattox, called Elizabeth, having been at the house of Iohn Nutter of the Bull-hole, to beg or get a dish full of milk, which she had, and brought to her mother, who was about a fields breadth of the said Nutters house, which her said mother Anne Chattox took and put into a Kahn; and did charne the same with two sticks across in the same field: whereupon the said Iohn Nutters son came unto her, the said Chattox, and misliking her doings, put the said Kahn and milk over with his foot; and the morning next after, a Cow of the said Iohn Nutters fell sick, and so languished three or four days, and then died.

In the end being openly charged with all this in open Court; with weeping tears she humbly acknowledged them to be true, and cried out unto God for Mercy and forgiveness of her sins, and humbly prayed my Lord to be merciful unto Anne Redfearne her daughter, of whose life and condition you shall hear more upon

 


her Arraignment and Trial: whereupon she being taken away, Elizabeth Device comes now to receive her Trial being the next in order, of whom you shall hear at large.




THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of ELIZABETH DEVICE (Daughter of ELIZABETH SOTHERNES, alias OLD DEMBDIKE) late wife of Io. DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, widow, for Witchcraft; Upon Tuesday the eighteenth of August, at the Assizes and general Gaole-Deliuerie holden at Lancaster Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assise at Lancaster.

Elizabeth Device???
O Barbarous and inhumane Monster, beyond example; so far from sensible understanding of thy own misery, as to bring thy own natural children into mischief and bondage; and thy self to be a witness upon the Gallows, to see thy own children, by thy devilish instructions hatched up in Villainy and Witchcraft, to suffer with thee, even in the beginning of their time, a shameful and untimely Death. Too much (so it be true) cannot be said or written of her. Such was her life and condition: that even at the Bar, when she came to receive her Trial (where the

 


least spark of Grace or modesty would have procured favour, or moved pity) she was not able to contain her self within the limits of any order or government: but exclaiming, in very outrageous manner crying out against her own children, and such as came to prosecute Indictments & Evidence for the Kings Majesty against her, for the death of their Children, Friends, and Kinsfolks, whom cruelly and bloodily, by her Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries she had murdered and cut off; sparing no man with fearful execrable curses and banning: Such in general was the common opinion of the Country where she dwelt, in the Forest of Pendle (a place fit for people of such condition) that no man near her, neither his wife, children, goods, or cattle should be secure or free from danger.
This Elizabeth Device was the daughter of Elizabeth Sothernes, old Dembdike, a malicious, wicked, and dangerous Witch for fifty years, as appears by Record: and how much longer, the Devil and she knew best, with whom she made her covenant.

It is very certain, that amongst all these Witches there was not a more dangerous and devilish Witch to execute mischief, having old Dembdike??? her mother, to assist her; Iames Device and Alison Device, her own natural children, all provided with Spirits, upon any occasion of offence ready to assist her.

Upon her Examination although Master Novel was very circumspect, and exceeding careful in dealing with her, yet she would confess nothing, until it pleased God to raise up a young maid Jennet Device, her own daughter, about the age of nine years (a witness unexpected) to discover all their Practises, Meetings, Consultations,



Murders, Charms, and Villainies: such, and in such sort, as I may justly say of them, as a reverend and learned Judge of this Kingdom speaks of the greatest Treason that ever was in this Kingdom, Quis haec posteris sic narrare poterit, vt facta non fist esse videantur? That when these things shall be related to Posterity, they will be reputed matters fained, not done.
And then knowing, that both Jennet Device, her daughter, Iames Device, her son, and Alison Device, with others, had accused her and laid open all things, in their Examinations taken before Master Novel, and although she were their own natural mother, yet they did not spare to accuse her of every particular fact, which in her time she had committed, to their knowledge; she made a very liberal and voluntary Confession, as hereafter shall be given in evidence against her, upon her Arraignment and Trial.

This Elizabeth Device being at liberty, after Old Dembdike her mother, Alison Device, her daughter, and old Chattocks were committed to the Castle of Lancaster for Witchcraft; laboured not a little to procure a solemn meeting at Malkyn-Tower of the Grand Witches of the Counties of Lancaster and York, being yet unsuspected and untaken, to consult of some speedy course for the deliverance of their friends, the Witches at Lancaster, and for the putting in execution of some other devilish practises of Murder and Mischief: as upon the Arraignment and Trial of Iames Device, her son, shall hereafter in every particular point appear at large against her.

 



The first Indictment.
THis Elizabeth Device, late the wife of Iohn Device, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster Widow, being indicted, for that thee feloniously had practised, used, and exercised divers wicked and devilish Arts, called Witch-crafts, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in, and upon one Iohn Robinson, alias Swyer: and by force of the same feloniously, the said Iohn Robinson, alias Swyer, had killed. Country pacem, &. being at the Bar was arraigned.


2. Indictment.
The said Elizabeth Device was the second time indicted in the same manner and form, for the death of Iames Robinson, by Witch-craft. Country pacem, &c.


3. Indictment.
The said Elizabeth Device, was the third time with others, viz. Alice Nutter, and Elizabeth Sothernes, alias Old-Dembdike, her Grand-mother, Indicted in the same manner and form, for the death of Henrie Mitten. Country pacem, &c.

To these three several Indictments upon her Arraignment, she pleaded not guilty; and for the trial of her life, put her self upon God and her Country.

So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of life and death, stand charged to find, whether she bee guilty of them, or any of them.





Whereupon there was openly read, and given in evidence against her, for the Kings Majesty, her own voluntary Confession and Examination, when she was apprehended, taken, and committed to the Castle of Lancaster by M. Novel, and M. Banister, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the same County. viz.

The Examination and voluntary confession of ELIZABETH DEVICE, taken at the house of IAMES WILSEY of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, the seven and twentieth day of April: Anno Reg. IACOBI, Angle. &c. decimo, & Scotiae xlv. Before ROGER NOVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires; two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace within the same County. viz. The said Elizabeth Device, Mother of the said Iames, being examined, confesses and saith.
THat at the third time her Spirit, the Spirit Ball, appeared to her in the shape of a browne Dog, at, or in her Mothers house in Pendle Forest aforesaid: about four years ago the said Spirit bid this Examinate make a picture of Clay after the said Iohn Robinson, alias Swyer, which this Examinate did make accordingly at the West end of her said Mothers house, and dried the same picture with the fire and crumbled all the same picture away within a week or thereabouts, and about a

 


week after the Picture was crumbled or mulled away; the said Robinson dyed.
The reason wherefore she this Examinate did so bewitch the said Robinson to death, was: for that the said Robinson had chidden and becalled this Examinate, for having a Bastard child with one Seller.

And this Examinate further saith and confesses, that she did bewitch the said Iames Robinson to death, as in the said Jennet Device her examination is confessed.

And further she saith, and confesses, that she with the wife of Richard Nutter, and this Examinates said Mother, joined altogether, and did bewitch the said Henrie Mitten to death.


The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE, Daughter of the said ELIZABETH DEVICE, late Wife of IOHN DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster. Against ELIZABETH DEVICE her Mother, Prisoner at the Bar upon her Arraignment and Trial. viz.
THe said Jennet Device, being a young Maid, about the age of nine years, and commanded to stand up to give evidence against her Mother, Prisoner at the Bar: Her Mother, according to her accustomed manner, outrageously cursing, cried out against the child in such fearful manner, as all the Court did not a little wonder at her, and so amazed the child, as with weeping tears



she cried out unto my Lord the Judge, and told him, she was not able to speak in the presence of her Mother.
This odious Witch was branded with a preposterous mark in Nature, even from her birth, which was her left eye, standing lower then the other; the one looking down, the other looking up, so strangely deformed, as the best that were present in that Honourable Assembly, and great Audience, did affirm, they had not often seen the like.

No entreaty, promise of favour, or other respect, could put her to silence, thinking by this her outrageous cursing and threatening of the child, to enforce her to deny that which she had formerly confessed against her Mother, before M. Novel: Forswearing and denying her own voluntary confession, which you have heard, given in evidence against her at large, and so for want of further evidence to escape that, which the Justice of the Law had provided as a condign punishment for the innocent blood she had spilt, and her wicked and devilish course of life.

In the end, when no means would serve, his Lordship commanded the Prisoner to be taken away, and the Maid to bee set upon the Table in the presence of the whole Court, who delivered her evidence in that Honourable assembly, to the Gentlemen of the Jury of life and death, as follows. viz.

Jennet Device, Daughter of Elizabeth Device, late Wife of Iohn Device, of the Forest of Pendle aforesaid Widow, confesses and saith, that her said Mother is a Witch, and that this she knows to be true; for, that

 


she hath seen her Spirit sundry times come unto her said Mother in her own house, called Malking-Tower, in the likeness of a browne Dog, which she called Ball; and at one time amongst others, the said Ball did ask this Examinates Mother what she would have him to doe: and this Examinates Mother answered, that she would have the said Ball to help her to kill Iohn Robinson of Barley, alias Swyre: by help of which said Ball, the said Swyer was killed by witch-craft accordingly; and that this Examinates Mother hath continued a Witch for these three or four years last past. And further, this Examinate confesses, that about a year after, this Examinates Mother called for the said Ball, who appeared as aforesaid, asking this Examinates Mother what she would have done, who said, that she would have him to kill Iames Robinson, alias Swyer, of Barlow aforesaid, Brother to the said Iohn: whereunto Ball answered, he would doe it; and about three weeks after, the said Iames dyed.
And this Examinate also saith, that one other time she was present, when her said Mother did call for the said Ball,[3] who appeared in manner as aforesaid, and asked this Examinates Mother what she would have him to doe, whereunto this Examinates Mother then said she would have him to kill one Mitten of the Rough-Lee, whereupon the said Ball said, he would doe it, and so vanished away, and about three weeks after, the said Mitten likewise dyed.





The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, son of the said ELIZABETH DEVICE: Taken the seven and twentieth day of of April, Anno{que} Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, &c. Decimo as Scociae, xlv. Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace, within the said County. viz.
THe said Iames Device being examined, saith, That he heard his Grand-mother say, about a year ago, That his mother, called Elizabeth Device, and others, had killed one Henry Mitten of the Rough-Lee aforesaid, by Witchcraft. The reason wherefore he was so killed, was for that this Examinates said Grand-mother Old Demdike, had asked the said Mitten a penny; and he denying her thereof, thereupon she procured his death, as aforesaid.

And he, this Examinate also saith, That about three years ago, this Examinate being in his Grand-mothers house, with his said mother; there came a thing in shape of a browne dog, which his mother called Ball, who spake to this Examinates mother, in the sight and hearing of this Examinates, and bad her make a Picture of Clay like unto Iohn Robinson, alias Swyer, and dry it hard, and then crumble it by little and little; and as the said Picture should crumble or mull away, so should the said Io. Robinson alias Swyer his body decay and wear away. And within two or three days after, the Picture shall so all be wasted, and mulled away; so then the said Iohn Robinson should die presently. Upon the agreement betwixt

 


the said dog and this Examinates mother; the said dog suddenly vanished out of this Examinates sight. And the next day, this Examinate saw his said mother take Clay at the West-end of her said house, and make a Picture of it after the said Robinson, and brought into her house, and dried in some two days: and about two days after the drying thereof this Examinates said mother fell on crumbling the said Picture of Clay, every day some, for some three weeks together; and within two days after all was crumbled or mulled away, the said Iohn Robinson died.
Being demanded by the Court, what answer she could give to the particular points of the Evidence against her, for the death of these several persons; Impudently she denied them, crying out against her children, and the rest of the Witnesses against her.

But because I have charged her to be the principal Agent, to procure a solemn meeting at Malking-Tower of the Grand-witches, to consult of some speedy course for the deliverance of her mother, Old Demdike, her daughter, and other Witches at Lancaster: the speedy Execution of Master Couell, who little suspected or deserved any such practise or villainy against him: The blowing up of the Castle, with divers other wicked and devilish practises and murders; I shall make it apparent unto you, by the particular Examinations and Evidence of her own children, such as were present at the time of their Consultation, together with her own Examination and Confession, amongst the Records of the Crown at the Lancaster, as hereafter follows.





The voluntary Confession and Examination of ELIZABETH DEVICE, taken at the house of IAMES WILSEY, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, the seven and twentieth day of April, Anno{que} Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, &c. Decimo, & Scotiae Quadragesimo quinto. Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace within the same County. viz.
THe said Elizabeth Device being further Examined, confesses, that upon Good-Friday last, there dined at this Examinates house, called Malking-Tower, those which she hath said are Witches, and doth verily think them to be Witches: and their names are those whom Iames Device hath formerly spoken of to be there. And she further saith, that there was also at her said mothers house, at the day and time aforesaid, two women of Burneley Parish, whose names the wife of Richard Nutter doth know. And there was likewise there one Anne Crouckshey of Marsden: And she also confesses, in all things touching the Christening of the Spirit, and the killing of Master Lister of Westbie, as the said Iames Device hath before confessed; but denies of any talk was amongst them the said Witches, to her now remembrance, at the said meeting together, touching the killing of the Galoer, or the blowing up of Lancaster Castle.

 



The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE, daughter of the said ELIZABETH DEVICE, late wife of IOHN DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster. Against ELIZABETH DEVICE, her Mother, prisoner at the Bar, upon her Arraignment and Trial, viz.
THe said Jennet Device saith, That upon Good Friday last there was about twenty persons (whereof only two were men, to this Examinates remembrance) at her said Grandmothers house, called Malking-Tower aforesaid, about twelve of the clock: all which persons this Examinates said mother told her, were Witches, and that they came to give a name to Alison Device Spirit, or Familiar, sister to this Examinate, and now prisoner at Lancaster. And also this Examinate saith, That the persons aforesaid had to their dinners Beef, Bacon, and roasted Mutton; which Mutton (as this Examinates said brother said) was of a Whether of Christopher Swyers of Barley: which Whether was brought in the night before into this Examinates mothers house by the said Iames Device, this Examinates said brother: and in this Examinates sight killed and eaten, as aforesaid. And she further saith, That she knows the names of six of the said Witches, viz. the wife of Hugh Hargraues under Pendle, Christopher Howgate of Pendle, uncle to this Examinate, and Elizabeth his wife, and Dicke Miles his wife of the Rough-Lee; Christopher Jacks of Thorny-holme, and his wife: and the names



of the residue she this Examinate doth not know, saving that this Examinates mother and brother were both there. And lastly, she this Examinate confesses and saith, That her mother hath taught her two prayers: the one to cure the bewitched, and the other to get drink; both which particularly appear.

The Examination and Evidence of IAMES DEVICE, son of the said ELIZABETH DEVICE, late wife of IOHN DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster. Against ELIZABETH DEVICE, his Mother, prisoner at the Bar, upon her Arraignment and Trial, viz.
THe said Iames Device saith, That on Good-Friday last, about twelve of the clock in the day time, there dined in this Examinates said mothers house, at Malking-Tower, a number of persons, whereof three were men, with this Examinate, and the rest women; and that they met there for three causes following (as this Examinates said mother told this Examinate) The first was, for the naming of the Spirit, which Alison Device, now prisoner at Lancaster, had: But did not, name him, because she was not there. The second was, for the delivery of his said Grandmother, old Dembdike; this Examinates said sister Allizon; the said

 


Anne Chattox, and her daughter Redferne; killing the Jailer at Lancaster; and before the next Assizes to blow up the Castle there: and to that end the aforesaid prisoners might by that time make an escape, and get away. All which this Examinate then heard them confer of.
And he also saith, That the names of the said Witches as were on Good-Friday at this Examinates said Grandmothers house, and now this Examinates own mothers, for so many of them as he did know, were these, viz. The wife of Hugh Hargreiues of Burly; the wife of Christopher Bulcock, of the Moss end, and Iohn her son; the mother of Miles Nutter; Elizabeth, the wife of Christopher Hargreiues, of Thurniholme; Christopher Howgate, and Elizabeth, his wife; Alice Gray of Coulne, and one Mould-heeles wife, of the same: and this Examinate, and his Mother. And this Examinate further saith, That all the Witches went out of the said House in their own shapes and likenesses. And they all, by that they were forth of the doors, gotten on Horseback, like unto Foales, some of one colour, some of another; and Prestons wife was the last: and when she got on Horseback, they all presently vanished out of this Examinates sight. And before their said parting away,[4] they all appointed to meet at the said Prestons wives house that day twelue-moneths; at which time the said Prestons wife promised to make them a great Feast. And if they had occasion to meet in the mean time, then should warning be given, that they all should meet upon Romleyes Moore.





And here they parted, with resolution to execute their devilish and bloody practices, for the deliverance of their friends, until they came to meet here, where their power and strength was gone. And now finding her Means was gone, she cried out for Mercy. Whereupon she being taken away, the next in order was her son Iames Device, whom she and her Mother, old Dembdike, brought to act his part in this woeful Tragedy.
 



THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of IAMES DEVICE, Son of ELIZABETH DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, within the County of Lancaster aforesaid, Laborer, for Witchcraft; Upon Tuesday the eighteenth of August, at the Assizes and general Gaole-Deliuerie holden at Lancaster Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assise at Lancaster.

James Device.
THis wicked and miserable Wretch, whether by practise, or means, to bring himself to some untimely death, and thereby to avoid his Trial by his Country, and just judgment of the Law; or ashamed to bee openly charged with so many devilish practises, and so much innocent blood as he had spilt; or by reason of his Imprisonment so long time before his Trial (which was with more favour, commiseration, and relief then he deserved) I know not: But being brought forth to the



Bar, to receive his Trial before this worthy Judge, and so Honourable and Worshipful an Assembly of Justices for this service, was so insensible, weak, and unable in all things, as he could neither speak, hear, or stand, but was holden up when he was brought to the place of his Arraignment, to receive his trial.
This Iames Device of the Forest of Pendle, being brought to the Bar, was there according to the form, order, and course, Indicted and Arraigned; for that he Feloniously had practised, used, and exercised divers wicked and devilish Arts, called Witch-crafts, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in, and upon one Anne Towneley, wife of Henrie Towneley of the Carre, in the County of Lancaster Gentleman, and her by force of the same, feloniously had killed. Country pacem, &c.

The said Iames Device was the second time Indicted and Arraigned in the same manner and form, for the death of Iohn Duckworth, by witch-craft. Country pacem, &c.

To these two several Indictments upon his Arraignment, he pleaded not guilty, and for the trial of his life put himself upon God and his Country.

So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of life & death stand charged to find, whether he be guilty of these, or either of them.

Whereupon Master Novel humbly prayed Master Towneley might be called, who attended to prosecute and give evidence against him for the Kings Majesty, and that the particular Examinations taken before him and others, might be openly published & read in Court, in the hearing of the Prisoner.

 


But because it were infinite to bring him to his particular Trial for every offence, which he hath committed in his time, and every practice wherein he hath had his hand: I shall proceed in order with the Evidence remaining upon Record against him, amongst the Records of the Crown; both how, and in what sort he came to be a witch: and show you what apparent proof there is to charge him with the death of these two several persons, for the which he now stands upon his trial for al the rest of his devilish practises, incantations, murders, charms, sorceries, meetings to consult with Witches, to execute mischief (take them as they are against him upon Record:) Enough, I doubt not. For these with the course of his life will serve his turn to deliver you from the danger of him that never took felicity in any things, but in revenge, blood, & mischief with crying out unto God for vengeance; which hath now at the length brought him to the place where he stands to receive his Trial with more honour, favour, and respect, then such a Monster in Nature doth deserve; And I doubt not, but in due time by the Justice of the Law, to an untimely and shameful death.




The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, son of ELIZABETH DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, Labourer. Taken the seven and twentieth day of April, Anno{que}, Reg. Regis IACOBI, Anglia, &c. xo. & Scotiae Quadragesimo quinto Before ROGER NOVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires: two of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County.
HE saith, that upon Shear Thursday was two years, his Grand-Mother Elizabeth Sothernes, alias Dembdike, did bid him this Examinate go to the church to receive the Communion (the next day after being Good Friday) and then not to eat the Bread the Minister gave him, but to bring it and deliver it to such a thing as should meet him in his way homewards: Notwithstanding her persuasions, this Examinate did eat the Bread: and so in his coming, homeward some forty roods off the said Church, there met him a thing in the shape of a Hare, who spoke unto this Examinate, and asked him whether he had brought the Bread that his Grand-mother had bidden him, or no? whereupon this Examinate answered, he had not: and thereupon the said thing threatened to pull this Examinate in pieces, and so this Examinate thereupon marked himself to God, and so the said thing vanished out of this Examinates sight. And within some four days after that, there appeared in this Examinates sight, hard by the new Church in Pendle, a thing like unto a browne

 


Dog, who asked this Examinate to give him his Soul, and he should be revenged of any whom he would: whereunto this Examinate answered, that his Soul was not his to give, but was his Saviour Iesus Christs, but as much as was in him this Examinate to give, he was contented he should have it.
And within two or three days after, this Examinate went to the Carre-Hall, and upon some speeches betwixt Mistress Towneley and this Examinate; She charging this Examinate and his said mother, to have stolen some Turues of hers, bad him pack the doors: and withal as he went forth of the door, the said Mistress Towneley gave him a knock between the shoulders: and about a day or two after that, there appeared unto this Examinate in his way, a thing like unto a black dog, who put this Examinate in mind of the said Mistress Towneleyes falling out with him this Examinate; who bad this Examinate make a Picture of Clay, like unto the said Mistress Towneley: and that this Examinate with the help of his Spirit (who then ever after bid this Examinate to call it Dandy) would kill or destroy the said Mistress Towneley: and so the said dog vanished out of this Examinates sight. And the next morning after, this Examinate took Clay, and made a Picture of the said Mistress Towneley, and dried it the same night by the fire: and within a day after, he, this Examinate began to crumble the said Picture, every day some, for the space of a week: and within two days after all was crumbled away; the said Mistress Towneley died.

And he further saith, That in Lent last one Iohn Duckworth of the Lawnde, promised this Examinate an old shirt: and within a fortnight after, this Examinate



went to the said Duckworthes house, and demanded the said old shirt; but the said Duckworth denied him thereof. And going out of the said house, the said Spirit Dandy appeared unto this Examinate, and said, Thou did touch the said Duckworth; whereunto this Examinate answered, he did not touch him: yes (said the Spirit again) thou did touch him, and therefore I have power of him: whereupon this Examinate joined with the said Spirit, and then wished the said Spirit to kill the said Duckworth: and within one week, then next after, Duckworth died.
This voluntary Confession and Examination of his own, containing in itself matter sufficient in Law to charge him, and to prove his offences, contained in the two several Indictments, was sufficient to satisfy the Gentlemen of the Jury of Life and Death, that he is guilty of them, and either of them: yet my Lord Bromley commanded, for their better satisfaction, that the Witnesses present in Court against any of the Prisoners, should be examined openly, viva voce, that the Prisoner might both hear and answer to every particular point of their Evidence; notwithstanding any of their Examinations taken before any of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the same County.

Herein do but observe the wonderful work of God; to raise up a young Infant, the very sister of the Prisonr, Jennet Device, to discover, justify and prove these things against him at the time of his Arraignment and Trial, as hereafter follows. viz.

 



The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE daughter of ELIZABETH DEVICE, late wife of IOHN DEVICE of of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster. Against IAMES DEVICE, Prisoner at the Bar, upon his Arraignment and Trial. viz.
BEing examined in open Court, she saith, That her brother Iames Device, the Prisoner at the Bar, hath been a Witch for the space of three years: about the beginning of which time, there appeared unto him, in this Examinates mothers house, a Black-Dogge, which her said brother called Dandy.[5] And further, this Examinate confesses, & saith: That her said brother about a twelve month since, in the presence of this Examinate, and in the house aforesaid, called for the said Dandy, who thereupon appeared; asking this Examinates brother what he would have him to doe. This Examinates brother then said, he would have him to help him to kill old Mistress Towneley of the Carre: whereunto the said Dandy answered, and said, That her said brother should have his best help for the doing of the same; and that her said brother, and the said Dandy, did both in this Examinates hearing, say, they would make away the said Mistress Towneley. And about a week after, this Examinate coming to the Carre-Hall, saw the said Mistress Towneley in the Kitchen there, nothing well: whereupon it came into this Examinates mind, that her said brother, by the help of Dandy, had brought the said Mistress Towneley into the state she then was in.





Which Examinat, although she were but very young, yet it was wonderful to the Court, in so great a Presence and Audience, with what modesty, government, and understanding, she delivered this Evidence against the Prisoner at the Bar, being her own natural brother, which he himself could not deny, but there acknowledged in every particular to be just and true.
But behold a little further, for here this bloody Monster did not stay his hands: for besides his wicked and devilish Spells, practises, meetings to consult of murder and mischief, which (by Gods grace) hereafter shall follow in order against him; there is yet more blood to be laid unto his charge. For although he were but young, and in the beginning of his Time, yet was he careful to observe his Instructions from Old Demdike his Grandmother, and Elizabeth Device his mother, in so much that no time should posse since his first entrance into that damnable Art and exercise of Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms and Sorceries, without mischief or murder. Neither should any man upon the least occasion of offence given unto him, escape his hands, without some danger. For these particulars were no sooner given in Evidence against him, when he was again Indicted and Arraigned for the murder of these two. viz.

Iames Device of the Forest of Pendle aforesaid, in the County of Lancaster, Labourer, the third time Indicted and Arraigned for the death of Iohn Hargraues of Gould-shey-booth, in the County of Lancaster, by Witchcraft, as aforesaid. Country &c.

To this Indictment upon his Arraignment, he pleaded thereunto not guilty: and for his Trial put himself upon God and his Country, &c.

 


Iames Device of the Forest of Pendle aforesaid, in the County of Lancaster, Labourer, the fourth time Indicted and Arraigned for the death of Blaze Hargreues of Higham, in the County of Lancaster, by Witchcraft, as aforesaid. Country Pacem, &c.
To this Indictment upon his Arraignment, he pleaded thereunto not guilty; and for the Trial of his life, put himself upon God and the Country, &c.

Hereupon Jennet Device produced, sworn and examined, as a witness on his Majesties behalf, against the said Iames Device, was examined in open Court, as follows. viz.


The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE aforesaid. Against IAMES DEVICE, her brother, Prisoner at the Bar, upon his Arraignment and Trial. viz.
BEing sworn and examined in open Court, she saith, That her brother Iames Device hath been a Witch for the space of three years: about the beginning of which time, there appeared unto him, in this Examinates mothers house, a Blacke-Dogge, which her said brother called Dandy, which Dandy did ask her said brother what he would have him to doe, whereunto he answered, he would have him to kill Iohn Hargreiues, of Gold-shey-booth: whereunto Dandy answered that he would doe it; since which time the said Iohn is dead.





And at another time this Examinate confesses and saith, That her said brother did call the said Dandy: who thereupon appeared in the said house, asking this Examinates brother what he would have him to doe: whereupon this Examinates said brother said, he would have him to kill Blaze Hargreiues of Higham: whereupon Dandy answered, he should have his best help, and so vanished away: and she saith, that since that time the said Hargreiues is dead; but how long after, this Examinate doth not now remember.
All which things, when he heard his sister upon her Oath affirm, knowing them in his conscience to bee just and true, slenderly denied them, and thereupon insisted.

To this Examination were diverse witnesses examined in open Court vine voce, concerning the death of the parties, in such manner and form, and at such time as the said Jennet Device in her Evidence hath formerly declared to the Court.

Which is all, and I doubt not but matter sufficient in Law to charge him with, for the death of these parties.

For the proof of his Practises, Charms, Meetings at Malking-Tower, to consult with Witches to execute mischief, Master Novel humbly prayed; his own Examination, taken and certified, might openly be read; and the rest in order, as they remain upon Record amongst the Records of the Crown at Lancaster: as hereafter follows??? viz.

 



The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, Son of ELIZABETH DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle: Taken the seven and twentieth day of April aforesaid, Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County, viz.
ANd being examined, he further saith, That upon Sheare-Thursday last, in the evening, he this Examinate stole a Whether from Iohn Robinson of Barley, and brought it to his Grand-mothers house, old Dembdike, and there killed it: and that upon the day following, being Good-Friday, about twelve of the clock in the day time, there dined in this Examinates mothers house a number of persons, whereof three were men, with this Examinate, and the rest women; and that they met there for three Causes following, as this Examinates said Mother told this Examinate.

1. The first was, for the naming of the Spirit which Alison Device, now prisoner at Lancaster, had, but did not name him, because she was not there.

2. The second Cause was, for the delivery of his said Grand-mother; this Examinates said sister Alison; the said Anne Chattox, and her daughter, Redfernes; killing the Jailer at Lancaster; and before the next Assizes to blow up the Castle there, to the end the aforesaid persons might by that means make an escape & get away: all which this Examinate then heard them confer of.

3. And the third Cause was, for that there was a woman



dwelling in Gisborne Parish, who came into this Examinates said Grandmothers house, who there came and craved assistance of the rest of them that were then there, for the killing of Master Lister of Westby, because (as she then said) he had borne malice unto her, and had thought to have put her away at the last Assizes at York, but could not and this Examinate heard the said woman say, That her power was not strong enough to doe it her self, being now less then before time it had been.
And also, that the said Jennet Preston had a Spirit with her like unto a white Foal, with a black spot in the forehead.

And he also saith, That the names of the said Witches as were on Good-Friday at this Examinates said Grandmothers house, & now this Examinates own mothers, for so many of them as he did know, were these, viz. the wife of Hugh Hargreiues of Barley; the wife of Christopher Bulcock of the Moss end, and Iohn her son; the mother of Miles Nutter; Elizabeth, the wife of Christopher Hargreiues, of Thurniholme; Christopher Howgate, and Elizabeth his wife; Alice Gray of Coulne, and one Mouldheeles wife, of the same: and this Examinate, and his Mother. And this Examinate further saith, That all the said Witches went out of the said House in their own shapes and likenesses. And they all, by that they were forth of the doors, were gotten on Horseback, like unto Foales, some of one colour, some of another; and Prestons wife was the last; and when she got on Horseback, they all presently vanished out of this Examinates sight. And before their said parting away, they all appointed to meet at the said Prestons

 


wives house that day twelue-moneths; at which time the said Prestons wife promised to make them a great Feast. And if they had occasion to meet in the mean time, then should warning be given, that they all should meet upon Romleyes Moore.

The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE. Against IAMES DEVICE her said Brother, Prisoner at the Bar, upon his Arraignment and Trial: Taken before ROGER NOVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires: two of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County. viz.
She saith, that upon Good-Friday last there was about twenty persons, whereof only two were men, to this Examinates remembrance, at her said Grandmothers house, called Malking-Tower aforesaid, about twelve of the clock: all which persons this Examinates said Mother told her were Witches, and that they came to give a name to Alison Device Spirit or Familiar, Sister to this Examinate, and now Prisoner, in the Castle of Lancaster: And also this Examinate saith, that the persons aforesaid had to their Dinnors, Beef, Bacon, and roasted Mutton, which Mutton, as this Examinates said brother said, was of a Weather of Robinsons of Barley: which Weather was brought in the night before into this Examinates mothers house, by the said Iames Device



this Examinates said brother, and in this Examinates sight killed, and eaten, as aforesaid: And she further saith, that she knows the names of six of the said Witches, viz. the wife of the said Hugh Hargreiues, under Pendle: Christopher Howget, of Pendle, Uncle to this Examinate: and Dick Miles wife, of the Rough-Lee: Christopher Jacks, of Thorne-holme, and his Wife: and the names of the residue she this Examinate doth not know, saving that this Examinates Mother and Brother were both there.

The Examination of ELIZABETH DEVICE, Mother of the said IAMES DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle: taken the seven and twentieth day of April aforesaid. Before ROGER NOVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires; as aforesaid. viz.
BEing examined, the said Elizabeth saith and confesses, that upon Good-Friday last there dined at this Examinates house, those which she hath said to be Witches, and doth verily think them to bee Witches, and their names are those, whom Iames Device hath formerly spoken of to be there.

And she also confesses in all things touching the Christening of her Spirit, and the killing of Master Lister of Westby, as the said Iames ????????? confesses. But denies that any talk was amongst ????????? the said Witches, to her now remembrance, at the said meeting together,

 






 






 






 


touching the killing of the Jailer at Lancaster; blowing up of the Castle??? thereby to deliver old Dembdike her Mother; Alison Device her Daughter, and other Prisoners, committed to the said Castle for Witchcraft.
After all these things opened, and delivered in evidence against him; Master Couil, who hath the custody of the Gaol at Lancaster, having taken great pains with him during the time of his imprisonment, to procure him to discover his practises, and such other Witches as he knew to bee dangerous??? Humbly prayed the favour of the Court, that this voluntary confession to M. Anderton, M. Sands the Major of Lancaster, M. Couel, and others, might openly bee published and declared in Court.


The voluntary confession and declaration of IAMES DEVICE, Prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster. Before WILLIAM SANDS, Mayor of Lancaster, IAMES ANDERTON, Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the County of Lancaster: And THOMAS COVEL, Gentleman, one of his Majesties Coroners in the same County. viz.
IAMES Device, Prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster, saith; That his said Spirit Dandy, being very earnest with



him to give him his soul. He answered, he would give him that part thereof that was his own to give: and thereupon the said Spirit said, he was above CHRIST IESVS, and therefore he must absolutely give him his Soul: and that done, he would give him power to revenge himself against any whom he disliked.
And he further saith, that the said Spirit did appear unto him after sundry times, in the likeness of a Dog, and at every time most earnestly persuaded him to give him his Soul absolutely: who answered as before, that he would give him his own part and no further. And he saith, that at the last time that the said Spirit was with him, which was the Tuesday next before his apprehension, when as he could not prevail with him to have his Soul absolutely granted unto him, as aforesaid; the said Spirit departed from him, then giving a most fearful cry and yell, and withal caused a great flash of fire to show about him: which said Spirit did never after trouble this Examinate.

William Sands,
James Anderton.
Tho. Couel, Coroner.
The said Jennet Device, his Sister, in the very end of her Examination against the said Iames Device, confesses and saith, that her Mother taught her two Prayers: the one to get drink, which was this. viz.

Crucifixus hoc signum vitam Eternam. Amen.
 


And she further saith, That her Brother Iames Device, the Prisoner at the Bar, hath confessed to her this Examinate, that he by this Prayer hath gotten drink: and that within an hour after the saying the said Prayer, drink hath come into the house after a very strange manner. And the other Prayer, the said Iames Device affirmed, would cure one bewitched, which she recited as follows. viz.

A Charm.
Upon Good-Friday, I will fast while I may
Until I hear them knell
Our Lords own Bell,
Lord in his mess
With his twelve Apostles good,
What hath he in his hand
Ligh in leath wand:
What hath he in his other hand?
Heavens door key,
Open, open Heaven door keys,
Steck, steck hell door.
Let Crizum child
Go to it Mother mild,
What is yonder that casts a light so farrandly,
Mine own dear Son that's naild to the Tree.
He is naild sore by the heart and hand,
And holy barn Pan,
Well is that man
That Friday spell can,
His Child to learn;
A Cross of Blew, and another of Red,




As good Lord was to the Rood.
Gabriel laid him down to sleep
Upon the ground of holy weep:
Good Lord came walking by,
Sleep thou, wake thou Gabriel,
No Lord I am sted with stick and stake,
That I can neither sleep nor wake:
Rise up Gabriel and go with me,
The stick nor the stake shall never dear thee.
Sweet Iesus our Lord, Amen.
Iames Device.

What can be said more of this painful Steward??? that was so careful to provide Mutton against this Feast and solemn meeting at Malking-Tower, of these hellish and devilish band of Witches, (the like whereof hath not been heard of) then hath been openly published and declared against him at the Bar, upon his Arraignment and Trial: wherein it pleased God to raise up Witnesses beyond expectation to convince him; besides his own particular Examinations, which being showed and read unto him; he acknowledged to be just and true. And what I promised to set forth against him, in the beginning of his Arraignment and Trial, I doubt nor but therein I have satisfied your expectation at large, wherein I have been very sparing to charge him with anything, but with sufficient matter of Record and Evidence, able to satisfy the consciences of the Gentlemen of the Jury of Life and Death; to whose good consideration I leave him, with the perpetual Badge and Brand of as dangerous and malicious a Witch, as ever lived in these parts of Lancashire, of his time: and spotted

 


with as much Innocent blood, as ever any Witch of his years.
After all these proceedings, by direction of his Lordship, were their several Examinations, subscribed by every one of them in particular, showed unto them at the time of their Trial, & acknowledged by the?? to be true, delivered to the gentlemen of the Jury of Life & Death, for the better satisfaction of their consciences: after due consideration of which said several examinations, confessions, and voluntary declarations, as well of themselves as of their children, friends and confederates, The Gentlemen delivered up their Verdict against the Prisoners, as follows. viz.


The Verdict of Life and Death.
WHo found Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, Elizabeth Device, and Iames Device, guilty of the several murders by Witchcraft, contained in the Indictments against them, and every of them.





THE WITCHES OF SALMESBVRY.

The Arraignment and Trial of JENNET BIERLEY ELLEN BIERLEY, and IANE SOVTHVVORTH of Salmesbury, in the County of Lancaster; for Witchcraft upon the body of GRACE SOVVER BVTTS, upon Wednesday the nineteenth of August: At the Assizes and general Gaole-deliuery, holden at Lancaster. Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Maiestices Justices of Assize at Lancaster: as hereafter follows. viz.
Jennet Bierley.
Ellen Bierley.
Iane Southworth.
THus have we for a time left the Grand Witches of the Forest of Pendle, to the good consideration of a very sufficient Jury of worthy Gentlemen of their Cou??trey. We are now come to the famous Witches of Salmesbury, as the Country called them,

 


who by such a subtle practise and conspiracy of a Seminary Priest, or, as the best in this Honourable Assembly think, a Iesuite, whereof this County of Lancaster hath good store, who by reason of the general entertainment they find, and great maintenance they have, resort hither, being far from the Eye of Justice, and therefore, Procul a fulmine; are now brought to the Bar, to receive their Trial, and such a young witness prepared and instructed to give Evidence against them, that it must be the Act of GOD that must be the means to discover their Practises and Murders, and by an infant: but how and in what sort Almighty GOD delivered them from the stroke of Death, when the Axe was laid to the Tree, and made frustrate the practise of this bloody Butcher, it shall appear unto you upon their Arraignment and Trial, whereunto they are now come.
Master Thomas Couel, who hath the charge of the prisoners in the Castle at Lancaster, was commanded to bring forth the said

Janet Bierley,
Ellen Bierley,
Jane Southworth,
to the Bar to receive their Trial.

Indictment.
THe said Jennet Bierley, Ellen Bierly, and Iane Southworth of Salmesbury, in the County of Lancaster,



being indicted, for that they and every of them feloniously had practised, exercised, and used diverse devilish and wicked Arts, called Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in and upon one Grace Sowerbuts: so that by means thereof her body wasted and consumed, Country formam Statute &c. Et Country Pacem dicti Domini Regis Coronam & dignitatem &c.
To this Indictment upon their Arraignment, they pleaded Not-Guiltie; and for the Trial of their lives put themselves upon GOD and their Country.

Whereupon Master Sheriff of the County of Lancaster, by direction of the Court, made return of a very sufficient Jury to posse between the Kings Majesty and them, upon their lives and deaths, with such others as follow in order.

The Prisoners being now at the Bar upon their Trial, Grace Sowerbutts, the daughter of Thomas Sowerbutts, about the age of fourteen years, was produced to give Evidence for the Kings Majesty against them: who standing up, she was commanded to point out the Prisoners, which she did, and said as follows, viz. {inverted ???}

 



The Examination and Evidence of GRACE SOVVERBVTTS, daughter of THOMAS SOVVERBVTTS, of Salmesbury, in the County of Lancaster Husband-man, upon her Oath, Against JENNET BIERLEY, ELLEN BIERLEY, and IANE SOVTHVVORTH, prisoners at the Bar, upon their Arraignment and Trial, viz.
THe said Grace Sowerbutts upon her oath saith, That for the space of some years now last past she hath been haunted and vexed with some women, who have used to come to her: which women, she saith, were Jennet Bierley, this Informers Grand-mother; Ellen Bierley, wife to Henry Bierley; Iane Southworth, late the wife of Iohn Southworth, and one Old Doewife, all of Salmesburie aforesaid. And she saith, That now lately those four women did violently draw her by the hair of the head, and laid her on the top of a Hay-mowe, in the said Henry Bierleyes Barn. And she saith further, That not long after the said Jennet Bierley did meet this Examinate near unto the place where she dwells, and first appeared in her own likeness, and after that in the likeness of a black Dog, and as this Examinate did go over a Style, she picked her off: howbeit she saith she had no hurt then, but rose again, and went to her Aunts in Osbaldeston, and returned back again to her Fathers house the same night, being fetched home by her father. And she saith, That in her way home-wards she did then tell her Father,



how she had been dealt withal both then and at sundry times before that; and before that time she never told any body thereof: and being examined why she did not, she saith, she could not speak thereof, though she desired so to doe. And she further saith, That upon Saturday, being the fourth of this instant April, she this Examinate going towards Salmesbury boat, to meet her mother, coming from Preston, she saw the said Jennet Bierley, who met this Examinate at a place called the Two Brigges, first in her own shape, and afterwards in the likeness of a black Dog, with two legs, which Dog went close by the left side of this Examinate, till they came to a Pit of Water, and then the said Dog spake, and persuaded this Examinate to drown her self there, saying, it was a fair and an easy death: Whereupon this Examinate thought there came one to her in a white sheet, and carried her away from the said Pit, upon the coming whereof the said black Dog departed away; and shortly after the said white thing departed also: And after this Examinate had gone further on her way, about the length of two or three Fields, the said black Dog did meet her again, and going on her left side, as aforesaid, did carry her into a Barn of one Hugh Walshmans, near there by, and laid her upon the Barne-floore, and covered this Examinate with Straw on her body, and Hay on her head, and the Dog it self lay on the top of the said Straw, but how long the said Dog lay there, this Examinate cannot tell, nor how long her self lay there: for she saith, That upon her lying down there, as aforesaid, her Speech and Senses were taken from her: and the first
 


time she knew where she was, she was laid upon a bed in the said Walshmans house, which (as she hath since been told) was upon the Monday at night following: and she was also told, That she was found and taken from the place where she first lay, by some of her friends, and carried into the said Walshmans house, within a few hours after she was laid in the Barn, as aforesaid. And she further saith, That upon the day following, being Tuesday, near night of the same day, she this Examinate was fetched by her Father and Mother from the said Walshmans house to her Fathers house. And she saith, That at the place before specified, called the Two Brigges, the said Jennet Bierley and Ellen Bierley did appear unto her in their own shapes: whereupon this Examinate fell down, and after that was not able to speak, or go, till the Friday following: during which time, as she lay in her Fathers house, the said Jennet Bierley and Ellen Bierley did once appear unto her in their own shapes, but they did nothing unto her then, neither did she ever see them since. And she further saith, That a good while before all this, this Examinate did go with the said Jennet Bierley, her Grand-mother, and the said Ellen Bierley her Aunt, at the bidding of her said Grand-mother, to the house of one Thomas Walshman, in Salmesbury aforesaid. And coming thither in the night, when all the house-hold was abed, the doors being shut, the said Jennet Bierley did open them, but this Examinate knows not how: and being come into the said house, this Examinate and the said Ellen Bierley stayed there, and the said Jennet Bierley went into the Chamber


where the said Walshman and his wife lay, & from thence brought a little child, which this Examinate thinks was in bed with it Father and Mother: and after the said Jennet Bierley had set her down by the fire, with the said child, she did thrust a nail into the navel of the said child: and afterwards did take a pen and put it in at the said place, and did suck there a good space, and afterwards laid the child in bed again: and then the said Jennet and the said Ellen returned to their own houses, and this Examinate with them. And she thinks that neither the said Thomas Walshman, nor his wife knew that the said child was taken out of the bed from them. And she saith also, that the said child did not cry when it was hurt, as aforesaid: But she saith, that she thinks that the said child did thenceforth languish, and not long after dyed. And after the death of the said child; the next night after the burial thereof, the said Jennet Bierley & Ellen Bierley, taking this Examinate with them, went to Salmesburie Church, and there did take up the said child, and the said Jennet did carry it out of the Church-yard in her arms, and then did put it in her lap and carried it home to her own house, and having it there did boil some thereof in a Pot, and some did broil on the coals, of both which the said Jennet and Ellen did eat, and would have had this Examinate and one Grace Bierley, Daughter of the said Ellen, to have eaten with them, but they refused so to doe: And afterwards the said Jennet & Ellen did seethe the bones of the said child in a pot, & with the Fat that came out of the said bones, they said they would anoint themselves, that thereby they might sometimes change themselves into other shapes. And after all this being done, they said they
 


would lay the bones again in the grave the next night following, but whether they did so or not, this Examinate knows not: Neither doth she know how they got it out of the grave at the first taking of it up. And being further sworn and examined, she deposes & saith, that about half a year ago, the said Jennet Bierley, Ellen Bierley, Iane Southworth, and this Examinate (who went by the appointment of the said Jennet her Grand mother) did meet at a place called Red bank, upon the North-side of the water of Ribble, every Thursday and Sunday at night by the space of a fortnight, and at the water side there came unto them, as they went thither, four black things, going upright, and yet not like men in the face: which ???our did carry the said three women and this Examinate over the Water, and when they came to the said Red Bank they found some thing there which they did eat. But this Examinate saith, she never saw such meat; and therefore she durst not eat thereof, although her said Grand mother did bid her eat. And after they had eaten, the said three Women and this Examinate danced, every one of them with one of the black things aforesaid, and after their dancing the said black things did pull down the said three Women, and did abuse their bodies, as this Examinate thinks, for she saith, that the black thing that was with her, did abuse her body.
The said Examinate further saith upon her Oath, That about ten days after her Examination taken at Blackborne, she this Examinate being then come to her Fathers house again, after she had been certain days at her Uncles house in Houghton: Iane Southworth widow, did meet this Examinate at her Fathers house door



and did carry her into the loft, and there did lay her upon the floor, where she was shortly found by her Father and brought down, and laid in a bed, as afterwards she was told: for she saith, that from the first meeting of the said Iane Southworth, she this Examinate had her speech and senses taken from her. But the next day she saith, she came somewhat to her self, and then the said Widow Southworth came again to this Examinate to her bed-side, and took her out of bed, and said to this Examinate, that she did her no harm the other time, in respect of that she now would after doe to her, and thereupon put her upon a hey-stack, standing some three or four yards high from the earth, where she was found after great search made, by a neighbours Wife near dwelling, and then laid in her bed again, where she remained speechless and senseless as before, by the space of two or three days: And being recovered, within a week after she saith, that the said Iane Southworth did come again to this Examinate at her fathers house and did take her away, and laid her in a ditch near to the house upon her face, and left her there, where she was found shortly after, and laid upon a bed, but had not her senses again of a day & a night, or thereabouts. And she further saith, that upon Tuesday last before the taking of this her Examination, the said Iane Southworth, came to this Examinates Fathers house, and finding this Examinate without the door, took her and carried her into the Barn, and thrust her head amongst a company of boards that were there standing, where she was shortly after found and laid in a bed, and remained in her old fit till the Thursday at night following.
 


And being further examined touching her being at Red-bancke, she saith, That the three women, by her before named, were carried back again over Ribble, by the same black things that carried them thither; and saith that at their said meeting in the Red-bancke, there did come also divers other women, and did meet them there, some old, some young, which this Examinate thinks did dwell upon the North-side of Ribble, because she saw them not come over the Water: but this Examinate knew none of them, neither did she see them eat or dance, or doe any thing else that the rest did, saving that they were there and looked on.
These particular points of Evidence being thus urged against the Prisoners: the father of this Grace Sowerbutts prayed that Thomas Walshman, whose child they are charged to murder, might be examined as a witness upon his oath, for the Kings Majesty, against the Prisoners at the Bar: who upon this strange devised accusation, delivered by this impudent wench, were in opinion of many of that great Audience guilty of this bloody murder, and more worthy to die then any of these Witches.





The Examination and Evidence of THOMAS WALSHMAN, of Salmesbury, in the County of Lancaster, Yeoman. Against JENNET BIERLEY, ELLEN BIERLEY, and IANE SOVTHVVORTH, Prisoners at the Bar, upon their Arraignment and Trial, as follows. viz.
THe said Examinate, Thomas Walshman, upon his oath saith, That he had a child died about Lent was twelue-month, who had been sick by the space of a fortnight or three weeks, and was afterwards buried in Salmesburie Church: which child when it died was about a year old; But how it came to the death of it this Examinate knows not. And he further saith, that about the fifteenth of April last, or thereabouts, the said Grace Sowerbutts was found in this Examinates fathers Barn, laid under a little hay and straw, and from thence was carried into this Examinates house, and there laid till the Monday at night following: during which time she did not speak, but lay as if she had been dead.

 



The Examination of IOHN SINGLETON: Taken at Salmesbury, in the County of Lancaster, the seventh day of August: Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, Fidei Defensor. &c. Decimo & Scotiae, xlvj. Before ROBERT HOVLDEN, Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster. Against. JENNET BIERLEY, ELLEN BIERLEY, and IANE SOVTHVVORTH, which hereafter follows.
THe said Examinate upon his oath saith, That he hath often heard his old Master, Sir Iohn Southworth Knight, now deceased, say, touching the late wife of Iohn Southworth, now in the Gaol, for suspicion of Witchcraft: That the said wife was as he thought an evil woman, and a Witch: and he said that he was sorry for her husband, that was his kinsman, for he thought she would kill him. And this Examinate further saith, That the said Sir Iohn Southworth in his coming or going between his own house at Salmesbury, and the Town of Preston, did for the most part forbear to posse by the house, where the said wife dwelled, though it was his nearest and best way; and rode another way, only for fear of the said wife, as this Examinate verily thinks.





The Examination of WILLIAM ALKER of Salmesbury, in the County of Lancaster, Yeoman: Taken the fifteenth day of April, Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI, Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, Decimo & Scotiae, quadragesimo quinto. Before ROBERT HOVLDEN, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster: Against JENNET BIERLEY, ELLEN BIERLEY, and IANE BIERLEY, which hereafter follows. viz.
THe said Examinate upon his oath saith, That he hath seen the said Sir Iohn Southworth shun to meet the said wife of Iohn Southworth, now Prisoner in the Gaol, when he came near where she was. And hath heard the said Sir Iohn Southworth say, that he liked her not, and that he doubted she would bewitch him.

Here was likewise Thomas Sowerbutts, father of Grace Sowerbutts, examined upon his oath, and many other witnesses to little purpose: who being examined by the Court, could depose little against them: But the finding of the wench upon the hay in her counterfeit fits: wherefore I leave to trouble you with the particular declaration of their Evidence against the Prisoners, In respect there was not any one witness able to charge them with one direct matter of Withcraft; nor prove any thing for the murder of the child.

Herein, before we come to the particular declaration of that wicked and damnable practise of this Iesuite or Seminary. I shall commend unto your examination and judgment some points of her Evidence, wherein you

 


shall see what impossibilities are in this accusatio?? brought to this perfection, by the great care and pains of this officious Doctor, Master Tompson or Southworth, who commonly works upon the Feminine disposition, being more Passive then Active.

The particular points of the Evidence of GRACE SOVVERBVTTS, viz. Evidence.

THat for the space of some years she hath been haunted and vexed with some women, who have used to come to her.
The Iesuite forgot to instruct his Scholar how long it is since she was tormented: it seems it is long since he read the old Badge of a Liar, Oportet mendacem esse memorem. He knows not how long it is since they came to church, after which time they began to practise Witchcraft. It is a likely thing the Torment and Pangs of Witchcraft can be forgotten; and therefore no time can be set down.

She saith that now lately these four women did violently draw her by the hair of the head, and lay her on the top of a Hay-mow.
Here they use great violence to her, whom in another place they make choice to be of their counsel, to go with them to the house of Walshman to murder the child. This curtsy deserves no discovery of so foul a Fact.





Not long after, the said Jennet Bierley did meet this Examinate near unto the place where she dwelled, and first appeared in her own likeness, and after that in the likeness of a black Dog.
La & eodem tempore, she transformed her self into a Dog. I would know by what means any Priest can maintain this point of Evidence.

And as she went over a Style, she picked her over, but had no hurt.
This is as likely to be true as the rest, to throw a child down from the top of a House, and never hurt her great toe.

She rose again; had no hurt, went to her Aunt, and returned back again to her Fathers house, being fetched home.
I pray you observe these contrarieties, in order as they are placed, to accuse the Prisoners.

Saturday the fourth of this instant April.
Which was about the very day the Witches of the Forest of Pendle were sent to Lancaster. Now was the time for the Seminary to instruct, accuse, and call into question these poor women: for the wrinkles of an old wives face is good evidence to the Jury against a Witch. And how often will the common people say (Her eyes are sunk in her head, GOD bless vs from her.) But old Chattox had Faencie, besides her withered face, to accuse her.

 


This Examinate did go with the said Jennet Bierley her Grand-mother, and Ellen Bierley her Aunt, to the house of Walshman, in the nighttime, to murder a Child in a strange manner.
This of all the rest is impossible, to make her of their counsel, to doe murder, whom so cruelly and barbarously they pursue from day to day, and torment her. The Witches of the Forest of Pendle were never so cruel nor barbarous.

And she also saith, the Child cried not when it was hurt.
All this time the Child was asleep, or the Child was of an extraordinary patience, ?? inauditum facinus!

After they had eaten, the said three women and this Examinate danced every one of them with one of the Black things: and after, the Black things abused the said women.
Here is good Evidence to take away their lives. This is more proper for the Legend of Lies, then the Evidence of a witness upon Oath, before a reverend and learned Judge, able to conceive this Villainy, and find out the practise. Here is the Religious act of a Priest, but behold the event of it.

She describes the four Black things to go upright, but not like Men in the face.
The Seminary mistakes the face for the feet. For Chattox and all her fellow Witches agree, the Devil is clouen-footed: but Fancy had a very good face, and was a very proper Man.





About ten days after her Examination taken at Black-borne, then she was tormented.
Still he pursues his Project: for hearing his Scholar had done well, he laboured she might doe more in this nature. But notwithstanding, many things are laid to be in the times when they were Papists: yet the Priest never took pains to discover them, nor instruct his Scholar, until they came to Church. Then all this was the Act of GOD, to raise a child to open all things, and then to discover his plotted Tragedy. Yet in this great discovery, the Seminary forgot to devise a Spirit for them.

And for Thomas Walshman, upon his Oath he saith, That his Child had been sick by the space of a fortnight, or three weeks, before it died. And Grace Sowerbutts saith, they took it out of the bed, struck a nail into the Navel, sucked blood, laid it down again; and after, took it out of the Grave, with all the rest, as you have heard. How these two agree, you may, upon view of their Evidence, the better conceive, and be able to judge.

How well this project, to take away the lives of three innocent poor creatures by practise and villainy; to induce a young Scholar to commit perjury, to accuse her own Grand-mother, Aunt, &c agrees either with the Title of a Iesuite, or the duty of a Religious Priest, who should rather profess Sincerity and Innocence, then practise Treachery: But this was lawful; for they are Heretikes accursed, to leave the company of Priests; to frequent Churches, hear the word of GOD preached, and profess Religion sincerely.

 


But by the course of Times and Accidents, wise men observe, that very seldom hath any mischievous attempt been vnder-taken without the direction or assistance of a Iesuit, or Seminary Priest.
Who did not condemn these Women upon this evidence, and hold them guilty of this so foul and horrible murder? But Almighty God, who in his providence had provided means for their deliverance, although the Priest by the help of the Devil, had provided false witnesses to accuse them; yet GOD had prepared and placed in the Seat of Justice, an upright Judge to sit in Judgment upon their lives, who after he had heard all the evidence at large against the Prisoners for the Kings Majesty, demanded of them what answer they could make. They humbly upon their knees with weeping tears, desired him for Gods cause to examine Grace Sowerbuts, who set her on, or by whose means this accusation came against them.

Immediately the countenance of this Grace Sowerbuts changed: The witnesses being behind, began to quarrel and accuse one an other. In the end his Lordship examined the Girl, who could not for her life make any direct answer, but strangely amazed, told him, she was put to a Master to learn, but he told her nothing of this.

But here as his Lordships care and pains was great to discover the practises of these odious Witches of the Forest of Pendle, and other places, now upon their trial before him: So was he desirous to discover this damnable practise, to accuse these poor Women, and bring their lives in danger, and thereby to deliver the innocent.





And as he openly delivered it upon the Bench, in the hearing of this great Audience: That if a Priest or Iesuit had a hand in one end of it, there would appear to bee knavery, and practise in the other end of it. And that it might the better appear to the whole World, examined Thomas Sowerbuts, what Master taught his daughter: in general terms, he denied all.
The Wench had nothing to say, but her Master told her nothing of this. In the end, some that were present told his Lordship the truth, and the Prisoners informed him how she went to learn with one Thompson a Seminary Priest, who had instructed and taught her this accusation against them, because they were once obstinate Papists, and now came to Church. Here is the discovery of this Priest, and of his whole practise. Still this fire increased more and more, and one witness accusing an other, all things were laid open at large.

In the end his Lordship took away the Girl from her Father, and committed her to M. Leigh, a very religious Preacher, and M. Chisnal, two Justices of the Peace, to be carefully examined. Who took great pains to examine her of every particular point: In the end they came into the Court, and there delivered this Examination as follows. ???

 



The Examination of GRACE SOWERBVTS, of Salmesburie, in the County of Lancaster, Spinster: Taken upon Wednesday the 19. of August 1612. Anno{que} Reg. Regis, IACOBI Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, Fidei Defensoris, &c. decimo & Scotiae, xlvi. Before WILLIAM LEECH, and EDWARD CHISNAL, Esquires; two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the same County: At the Assizes and general Gaol delivery, holden at Lancaster. By Direction of Sir EDWARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assize at Lancaster.
BEing demanded whether the accusation she laid upon her Grand-mother, Jennet Bierley, Ellen Bierley, and Iane Southworth, of Witchcraft, viz. of the killing of the child of Thomas Walshman, with a nail in the Navel, the boiling, eating, and oiling, thereby to transform themselves into divers shapes, was true; she doth utterly deny the same; or that ever she saw any such practises done by them.

She further saith, that one Master Thompson, which she takes to be Master Christopher Southworth, to whom she was sent to learn her prayers, did persuade, counsel, and advise her, to deal as formerly hath been said against her said Grand-mother, Aunt, and Southworths wife.





And further she confesses and saith, that she never did know, or saw any Devils, nor any other Visions, as formerly by her hath been alleged and informed.
Also she confesses and saith, That she was not thrown or cast upon the Henne-ruffe, and Hay-mow in the Barn, but that she went up upon the Mow her self by the wall side.

Being further demanded whether she ever was at the Church, she saith, she was not, but promised her after to go to the Church, and that very willingly.

Signum, ??? Grace Sowerbuts. William Leigh. Edward Chisnal.
 



The Examination of JENNET BIERLEY, ELLEN BIERLEY, and IANE SOVTHWORTH, of Salmesburie, in the County of Lancaster, Taken upon Wednesday the nineteenth of August 1612. Anno{que} Reg. Regis, IACOBI Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, Fidei Defensoris, &c. decimo & Scotiae, xlvi. Before WILLIAM LEIGH, and EDWARD CHISNAL, Esquires; two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the same County: At the Assizes and general Gaol delivery, holden at Lancaster. By Direction of Sir EDWARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assize at Lancaster.
Jennet Bierley being demanded what she knows, or hath heard, how Grace Sowerbuts was brought to Christopher Southworth, Priest; she answers, that she was brought to M. Singletons house by her own Mother, where the said Priest was, and that she further heard her said Mother say, after her Daughter had been in her fit, that she should be brought unto her Master, meaning the said Priest.

And she further saith, that she thinks it was by and through the Counsel of the said M. Thomson, alias Southworth, Priest, That Grace Sowerbuts her Grandchild accused her of Witchcraft, and of such practises as she is accused of: And thinks further, the cause why the said Thompson, alias Southworth Priest, should practise with the Wench to doe it was for that she went to the Church.





Iane Southworth saith she saw Master Thompson, alias Southworth, the Priest, a month or six weeks before she was committed to the Gaol; and had conference with him in a place called Barne-hey-lane, where and when she challenged him for slandering her to bee a Witch: whereunto he answered, that what he had heard thereof, he heard from her mother and her Aunt: yet she, this Examinate, thinks in her heart it was by his procurement, and is moved so to think, for that she would not be dissuaded from the Church.
Ellen Bierley saith, She saw Master Thompson, alias Southworth, six or eight weeks before she was committed, and thinks the said Priest was the practiser with Grace Sowerbutts, to accuse her of Witchcraft, and knows no cause why he should so doe, but because she goes to the Church.

Signum, ??? Jennet Bierley.
Signum, ?? Iane Southworth.
Signum, ?? Ellen Bierley.
William Leigh.
Edward Chisnall.
 


These Examinations being taken, they were brought into the Court, and there openly in the presence of this great Audience published, and declared to the Jury of Life and Death; and thereupon the Gentlemen of their Jury required to consider of them. For although they stood upon their Trial, for matter of Fact of Witchcraft, Murder, and much more of the like nature: yet in respect all their Accusations did appear to bee practise: they were now to consider of them, and to acquit them. Thus were these poor Innocent creatures, by the great care and pains of this honourable Judge, delivered from the danger of this conspiracy; this bloody practise of the Priest laid open: of whose fact I may lawfully say; Etiam si ego tacuero clamabunt lipids.
These are but ordinary with Priests and Iesuites: no respect of Blood, kindred, or friendship, can move them to forbear their Conspiracies: for when he had laboured treacherously to seduce and convert them, and yet could doe no good; then devised he this means.

God of his great mercy deliver vs all from them and their damnable conspiracies: and when any of his Majesties subjects, so free and innocent as these, shall come in question grant them as honourable a Trial as Reverend and worthy a Judge to sit in Judgment upon them; and in the end as speedy a deliverance. And for that which I have heard of them; seen with my eyes, and taken pains to Read of them: My humble prayer shall be to God Almighty. Vt Conuertantur no parent. Aut consundantur no noceant.

To conclude, because the discourse of these three women of Salmesbury hath been long and troublesome



to you; it is here placed amongst the Witches, by special order and commandment, to set forth to the World the practise and conspiracy of this bloody Butcher. And because I have presented to your view a Calendar in the Frontispiece of this Book, of twenty notorious Witches: I shall show you their deliverance in order, as they came to their Arraignment and Trial every day, and as the Gentlemen of every Jury for life and death stood charged with them.
 



THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of ANNE REDFERNE, Daughter of ANNE WHITTLE, alias CHATTOX, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, for Witchcraft; upon Wednesday the nineteenth of August, at the Assizes and General Gaole-deliuerie, holden at Lancaster, Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assise at Lancaster.

Anne Redferne.
Such is the horror of Murder, and the crying sin of Blood, that it will never bee satisfied but with Blood. So fell it out with this miserable creature, Anne Redferne, the daughter of Anne Whittle, alias Chattox: who, as she was her Mother, and brought her into the World, so was she the means to bring her into this danger, and in the end to her Execution, for much Blood spilt, and many other mischiefs done.

For upon Tuesday night (although you hear little of her at the Arraignment and Trial of old Chattox, her Mother) yet was she arraigned for the murder of



Robert Nutter, and others: and by the favour and merciful consideration of the Jury, the Evidence being not very pregnant against her, she was acquitted, and found Not guilty.
Such was her condition and course of life, as had she lived, she would have been very dangerous: for in making pictures of Clay, she was more cunning then any: But the innocent blood yet unsatisfied, and crying out unto GOD for satisfaction and revenge; the cry of his people (to deliver them from the danger of such horrible and bloody executioners, and from her wicked and damnable practises) hath now again brought her to a second Trial, where you shall hear what wee have upon Record against her.

This Anne Redferne, prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster, being brought to the Bar, before the great Seat of Justice, was there, according to the former order and course, indicted and arraigned, for that she feloniously had practised, exercised, and used her devilish and wicked Arts, called Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in and upon one Christopher Nutter, and him the said Christopher Nutter, by force of the same Witchcrafts, feloniously did kill and murder, Country formam Statute &c. Et Country Pacem &c.

Upon her Arraignment to this Indictment, she pleaded Not-Guiltie; and for the trial of her life put her self upon GOD and the Country.

So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of Life and Death stand charged with her as with others.

The Evidence against Anne Redferne, Prisoner at the Bar.

 



The Examination of ELIZABETH SOTHERNES, alias OLD DEMBDIKE, taken at the Fence, in the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, the second day of April, Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI, Anglia, &c. decimo, & Scotiae xlv. Against ANNE REDFERNE (the daughter of ANNE WHITTLE, alias CHATTOX) Prisoner at the Bar: Before ROGER NOVVEL of Read, Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County.
THis Examinate saith, That about half a year before Robert Nutter died, as this Examinate thinks, this Examinate went to the house of Thomas Redferne, which was about Midsummer, as she this Examinate now remembers it: and there, within three yards of the East end of the said house, she saw the said Anne Whittle and Anne Redferne, wife of the said Thomas Redferne, and daughter of the said Anne Whittle, the one on the one side of a Ditch, and the other on the other side, and two pictures of Clay or Marle lying by them, and the third picture the said Anne Whittle was making. And the said Anne Redferne, her said daughter, wrought her Clay or Marle to make the third picture withal. And this Examinate passing by them, a Spirit, called Tibbe, in the shape of a black Cat, appeared unto her this Examinate??? and said, Turn back again, and doe as they doe. To whom this Examinate said, What are they doing?



Whereunto the said Spirit said, They are making three pictures: whereupon she asked, whose pictures they were? whereunto the said Spirit said, They are the pictures of Christopher Nutter, Robert Nutter, and Mary, wife of the said Robert Nutter. But this Examinate denying to go back to help them to make the pictures aforesaid, the said Spirit seeming to be angry therefore, shot or pushed this Examinate into the Ditch; and so shed the milk which this Examinate had in a Can, or Kitt: and so thereupon the Spirit at that time vanished out of this Examinates sight. But presently after that, the said Spirit appeared unto this Examinate again in the shape of a Hare, and so went with her about a quarter of a mile, but said nothing unto her this Examinate, nor she to it.

The Examination of MARGARET CROOK Against the said ANNE REDFERNE: Taken the day and year aforesaid, Before ROGER NOVVEL aforesaid, Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of the Peace in the County of Lancaster.
THis Examinate, sworn & examined upon her oath, saith, That about eighteen or nineteen years ago, this Examinates brother, called Robert Nutter, about Whitsontide the same year, meeting with the said Anne Redferne, upon some speeches between them they fell

 


out, as this Examinats said brother told this Examinat: and within some week, or fort-night, then next after, this Examinats said brother fell sick, and so languished until about Candlemas then next after, and then died. In which time of his sickness, he did a hundred times at the least say, That the said Anne Redferne and her associates had bewitched him to death. And this Examinate further saith, That this Examinates Father, called Christopher Nutter, about Maudlint???de next after following fell sick, and so languished, until Michaelmas then next after, and then died: during which time of his sickness, he did sundry times say, That he was bewitched; but named no body that should doe the same.

The Examination of IOHN NVTTER, of Higham Booth, in the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, yeoman, Against the said ANNE REDFERNE: Taken the day and year aforesaid, Before ROGER NOVVEL Esquire, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster.
THis Examinate, sworn & examined upon his oath, saith, That in or about Christmas, some eighteen or nineteen years ago, this Examinat coming from Burnley with Christopher Nutter and Robert Nutter, this Examinates Father and Brother, this Examinate heard



his said Brother then say unto his said Father these words, or to this effect. Father, I am sure I am bewitched by the Chattox, Anne Chattox, and Anne Redferne her daughter, I pray you cause them to bee laid in Lancaster Castle: Whereunto this Examinates Father answered, Thou art a foolish Lad, it is not so, it is thy miscarriage. Then this Examinates Brother weeping, said; nay, I am sure that I am bewitched by them, and if ever I come again (for he was ready to go to Sir Richard Shuttleworths, then his Master) I will procure them to bee laid where they shall be glad to bite Lice in two with their teeth.
Hereupon Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, her Mother, was brought forth to bee examined, who confessed the making of the pictures of Clay, and in the end cried out very heartily to God to forgive her sins, and upon her knees entreated for this Redferne, her daughter.

Here was likewise many witnesses examined upon oath Viva voce, who charged her with many strange practises, and declared the death of the parties, all in such sort, and about the time in the Examinations formerly mentioned.

All men that knew her affirmed, she was more dangerous then her Mother, for she made all or most of the Pictures of Clay, that were made or found at any time. Wherefore I leave her to make good use of the little time she hath to repent in: but no means could move her to repentance, for as she lived, so she dyed.

 



The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, taken the day and year aforesaid. Before ROGER NOVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires: two of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County of Lancaster. viz.
THe said Examinate upon his oath saith, That about two years ago, he this Examinate saw three Pictures of Clay, of half a yard long, at the end of Redfernes house, which Redferne had one of the Pictures in his hand, Marie his Daughter had another in her hand, and the said Redfernes wife,[6] now prisoner at Lancaster, had an other Picture in her hand, which Picture she the said Redfernes wife, was then crumbling, but whose Pictures they were, this Examinate cannot tell. And at his returning back again, some ten Roods off them there appeared unto him this Examinate a thing like a Hare, which spit fire at him this Examinate.





THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of ALICE NVTTER, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, for Witch-craft; upon Wednesday the nineteenth of August, at the Assizes and general Gaol delivery, holden at Lancaster. Before Sir EDWARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assize, at Lancaster.

Alice Nutter.
THe two degrees of persons which chiefly practise Witch-craft, are such, as are in great misery and poverty, for such the Devil allures to follow him, by promising great riches, and worldly commodity; Others, though rich, yet burn in a desperate desire of Revenge; He allures them by promises, to get their turn satisfied to their hearts contentment, as in the whole proceedings against old Chattox: the examinations of old Dembdike; and her children, there was not one of them, but have declared the like, when the Devil first assaulted them.

 


But to attempt this woman in that sort, the Devil had small means: For it is certain she was a rich woman; had a great estate, and children of good hope: in the common opinion of the world, of good temper, free from envy or malice; yet whether by the means of the rest of the Witches, or some unfortunate occasion, she was drawn to fall to this wicked course of life, I know not: but hither she is now come to receive her Trial, both for Murder, and many other wild and damnable practises.
Great was the care and pains of his Lordship, to make trial of the Innocence of this woman, as shall appear unto you upon the Examination of Jennet Device, in open Court, at the time of her Arraignment and Trial; by an extraordinary means of Trial, to mark her out from the rest.

It is very certain she was of the Grand-counsell at Malking-Tower upon Good-Friday, and was there present, which was a very great argument to condemn her.

This Alice Nutter, Prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster: Being brought to the Bar before the Great Seat of Justice; was there according to the former order and course Indicted and Arraigned, for that she feloniously had practised, exercised, and used her devilish and wicked Arts, called Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms and Sorceries, in and upon Henry Mitten: and him the said Henry Mitten, by force of the same Witchcrafts, feloniously did kill and murder. Country formam Statute, &c. Et Country Pacem, &c.

Upon her Arraignment, to this Indictment she pleaded not guilty; and for the trial of her life, put



her self upon God and the Country.
So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of life and death stand charged with her, as with others.

The Evidence against Alice Nutter Prisoner at the Bar.


The Examination of IAMES DEVICE son of ELIZABETH DEVICE: Taken the seven and twentieth day of April: Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, Fidei Defensor. &c. Decimo & Scotiae, xlvj. Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster. Against Alice Nutter.
THe said Examinate saith upon his oath, That he heard his Grand-mother say, about a year ago, that his mother, called Elizabeth Device, and his Grand-mother, and the wife of Richard Nutter,[7] of the Rough-Lee aforesaid, had killed one Henry Mitten, of the Rough-Lee aforesaid, by Witchcraft. The reason wherefore he was so killed, was for that this Examinats said Grand-mother had asked the said Mitten a penny: and he denying her thereof; thereupon she procured his death as aforesaid.

 



The Examination of ELIZABETH DEVICE, mother of the said IAMES DEVICE. Against ALICE NVTTER, wife of RICHARD NVTTER, Prisoner at the Bar, upon her Arraignment and Trial. Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANETER, Esquires, the day and year aforesaid.
THis Examinate upon her oath confesses, and saith, That she, with the wife of Richard Nutter, called Alice Nutter, Prisoner at the Bar; and this Examinates said mother, Elizabeth Sotherne, alias Old Demdike; joined altogether, and bewitched the said Henry Mitten to death.

This Examinate further saith, That upon Good-friday last, there dined at this examinats house two women of Burneley Parish, whose names the said Richard Nutters wife, Alice Nutter, now Prisoner at the Bar, doth know.





The Examination of IAMES DEVICE aforesaid, Against The said ALICE NVTTER, the day and year aforesaid.
THe said Examinate upon his oath saith, That upon Good-Friday about twelve of the clock in the day time, there dined in this Examinats said mothers house, a number of persons, whereof three were men, with this Examinate, and the rest women: and that they met there for these three causes following, as this Examinats said mother told this Examinate.

The first was for the naming of the Spirit, which Alison Device, now Prisoner at Lancaster, had, but did not name him, because she was not there.

The second cause was, for the delivery of his said Grand-mother; this Examinates said sister, Alison; the said Anne Chattox, and her daughter Redferne; killing the Jailer at Lancaster, and before the next Assizes to blow up the Castle there; to the end that the foresaid Prisoners might by that means make an escape, and get away: all which this Examinate then heard them confer of.

And he also saith, The names of such Witches as were on Good-Friday at this Examinats said Grand mothers house, and now this Examinates own mothers, for so many of them as he doth know, were amongst others, Alice Nutter, mother of Miles Nutter, now Prisoner at the Bar. And this Examinate further saith, That all the said Witches went out of the said house in their

 


own shapes and likenesses; and they all, by that time they were forth of the doors, were gotten on horse-backe, like unto Foales, some of one colour, and some of another; and Prestons wife was the last: and when she got on horse-back, they all presently vanished out of this Examinates sight: and before their said parting away, they all appointed to meet at the said Prestons wives house that day twelve month, at which time the said Prestons wife promised to make them a great feast: and if they had occasion to meet in the mean time, then should warning be given to meet upon?? Romleys Moore.

The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE, daughter of ELIZABETH DEVICE. Against ALICE NVTTER, Prisoner at the Bar.
THe said Examinate saith, That on Good-Friday last, there was about 20. persons, whereof only two were men (to this Examinates remembrance) at her said Grand-mothers house at Malking-Tower, about twelve of the clock; all which persons, this Examinats said mother told her, were Witches. And she further saith, she knows the names of six of them, viz. the wife of Hugh Hargreiues under Pendle, Christopher Howgate of Pendle, Uncle to this Examinat and Elizabeth his wife; and Dick Miles wife of the Rough-Lee, Christopher Jacks of Thorniholme, and his wife; and the names of the residue, she this Examinate doth not know.





AFter these Examinations were openly read, his Lordship being very suspicious of the accusation of this young wench Jennet Device, commanded one to take her away into the upper Hall, intending in the mean time to make Trial of her Evidence, and the Accusation especially against this woman, who is charged to have been at Malking-Tower, at this great meeting. Master Couel was commanded to set all his Prisoners by themselves, and betwixt every Witch another Prisoner, and some other strange women amongst them, so as no man could judge the one from the other: and these being set in order before the Court from the prisoners, then was the Wench Jennet Device commanded to be brought into the Court: and being set before my Lord, he took great pains to examine her of every particular Point, What women were at Malking-Tower upon Good-Friday? How she knew them? What were the names of any of them? And how she knew them to be such as she named?
In the end being examined by my Lord, Whether she knew them that were there by their faces, if she saw them? she told my Lord she should: whereupon in the presence of this great Audience, in open Court, she went and took Alice Nutter, this prisoner, by the hand, and accused her to be one: and told her in what place she sat at the Feast at Malking-Tower, at the great assembly of the Witches, and who sat next her: what conference they had, and all the rest of their proceedings at large, without any manner of contrariety.

Being demanded further by his Lordship, Whether she knew Iohan a Style? she alleged, she knew no such woman?? to be there, neither did she ever hear her name.

 


This could be no forged or false Accusation, but the very Act of GOD to discover her.
Thus was no means left to doe her all indifferent favour, but it was used to save her life; and to this she could give no answer.

But nothing would serve: for old Dembdike, old Chattox, and others, had charged her with innocent blood, which cries out for Revenge, and will be satisfied. And therefore Almighty GOD, in his Justice, hath cut her off.

And here I leave her, until she come to her Execution, where you shall hear she died very impenitent; insomuch as her own children were never able to move her to confess any particular offence, or declare anything, even in Articulo Mortise: which was a very fearful thing to all that were present, who knew she was guilty.





THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of KATHERINE HEVVIT, Wife of IOHN HEVVIT, alias MOVLD-HEELES, of Coulne, in the County of Lancaster Clothier, for Witchcraft; upon Wednesday the nineteenth of August, at the Assizes and General Gaole-deliuerie, holden at Lancaster, Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assise at Lancaster.

Katherine Hewit.
WHo but Witches can be proofs, and so witnesses of the doings of Witches? since all their Meetings, Conspiracies, Practises, and Murders, are the works of Darkness: But to discover this wicked Fury, GOD hath not only raised means beyond expectation, by the voluntary Confession and Accusation of all that are gone before, to accuse this Witch (being Witches, and thereby witnesses of her doings) but after they were committed, by means of a Child, to discover her to be one, and a Principal in that wicked assembly at Malking-Tower, to devise such a damnable course for the deliverance of their friends at

 


Lancaster, as to kill the Jailer, and blow up the Castle, wherein the Devil did but labour to assemble them together, and so being known to send them all one way: And herein I shall commend unto your good consideration the wonderful means to condemn these parties, that lived in the world, free from suspicion of any such offences, as are proved against them: And thereby the more dangerous, that in the success wee may lawfully say, the very Finger of God did point the?? out. And she that never saw them, but in that meeting, did accuse them, and by their faces discover them.
This Katherine Hewyt, Prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster, being brought to the Bar before the great Seat of Justice, was there according to the former order and course Indicted and Arraigned, for that she feloniously had practised, exercised, and used her Devilish and wicked Arts, called Witch-crafts, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in, and upon Anne Folds; and the same Anne Folds, by force of the same witch-craft, feloniously did kill and murder. Country formam Statute, &c. Et country Pacem dicti Domini Regis, &c.

Upon her Arraignment to this Indictment, she pleaded not guilty; And for the trial of her life put her self upon God and her Country.

So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of life and death, stand charged with her as with others.

The Evidence against Katherine Hewyt, Prisoner at the Bar.





The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, Son of ELIZABETH DEVICE, taken the seven and twentieth day of April, Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI, Anglia, Franciae, & Hiberniae, decimo, & Scotiae quadragesimo quarto. Before ROGER NOVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires; two of his Majesties Justices of Peace, in the County of Lancaster. Against KATHERINE HEWYT, alias MOVLD-HEELES of Colne. viz.
THis Examinate saith, that upon Good-Friday last, about twelve of the Clock in the day time, there dined at this Examinates Mothers house a number of persons: And he also saith, that they were Witches; and that the names of the said Witches, that were there, for so many of them as he did know, were amongst others Katherine Hewyt, wife of Iohn Hewyt, alias Mould-heeles, of Colne, in the County of Lancaster Clothier; And that the said Witch, called Katherine Hewyt, alias Mould-heeles, and one Alice Gray, did confess amongst the said Witches at their meeting at Malkin-Tower aforesaid, that they had killed Folds wives child, called Anne Folds, of Colne: And also said, that they had then in hanck a child of Michael Hartleys of Colne.

And this Examinate further saith, that all the said Witches went out of the said house in their own shapes and likenesses, and by that time they were gotten forth

 


of the doors, they were gotten on Horse-back like unto foales, some of one colour, some of an other, and the said Prestons wife was the last: And when she got on Horse-back, they all presently vanished out of this Examinates sight. And before their said parting away they all appointed to meet at the said Prestons wives house that day twelve Months: at which time the said Prestons wife promised to make them a great feast, and if they had occasion to meet in the mean time, then should warning be given that they all should meet upon Romlesmoore.

The Examination and Evidence of ELIZABETH DEVICE, Mother of the said IAMES DEVICE, Against KATHERINE HEWYT, alias MOVLD-HEELES, Prisoner at the Bar upon her Arraignment and Trial, taken the day and year aforesaid. viz.
THis Examinate upon her oath confesses, that upon Good-Friday last there dined at this Examinates house, which she hath said are Witches, and verily thinks to bee Witches, such as the said Iames Device hath formerly spoken of; amongst which was Katherine Hewyt, alias Mould-heeles, now Prisoner at the Bar: and she also saith, that at their meeting on Good-Friday at Malkin-Tower aforesaid, the said Katherine Hewyt, alias Mould-heeles, and Alice Gray, did confess, they had killed



a child of Folds of Colne, called Anne Folds, and had gotten hold of an other.
And she further saith, the said Katherine Hewyt with all the rest, there gave her consent with the said Prestons wife for the murder of Master Lister.


The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE, Against KATHERINE HEWYT, alias MOVLD-HEELES, Prisoner at the Bar.
THe said Examinate saith, That upon Good-Friday last, there was about twenty persons, where of two were men to this Examinates remembrance, at her said Grand-mothers house, called Malkin-Tower aforesaid, about twelve of the clock: All which persons this Examinates said mother told her were Witches, and that she knows the names of six of the said Witches.

Then was the said Jennet Device commanded by his Lordship, to find and point out the said Katherine Hewyt, alias Mould-heeles, amongst all the rest of the said Women, whereupon she went and took the said Katherine Hewyt by the hand: Accused her to bee one, and told her in what place she sate at the feast at Malkin-Tower, at the great Assembly of the Witches, and who sate next her; what conference they had, and all the rest of their proceedings at large, without any manner of contrariety: Being demanded further by his Lordship,

 


whether Join a Down were at that Feast, and meeting, or no? she alleged she knew no such woman to be there, neither did she ever hear her name.
If this were not an Honourable means to try the accusation against them, let all the World upon due examination give judgment of it. And here I leave her the last of this company, to the Verdict of the Gentlemen of the Jury of life and death, as hereafter shall ap??pear.

Here the Jury of Life and Death, having spent the most part of the day, in due consideration of their offences; Returned into the Court to deliver up their Verdict against them, as follows.


The ??erdict of Life and Death.
WHo upon their Oaths found Jennet Bierley, Ellen Bierley, and Iane Southworth, not guilty of the offence of Witch-craft??? contained in the Indictment against them.

Anne Redferne, guilty of the felony & murder, contained in the Indictment against her.

Alice Nutter, guilty of the felony and murder contained in the Indictment against her.

And

Katherine Hewyt, guilty of the felony & murder contained in the Indictment against her.





Whereupon Master Couell was commanded by the Court to take away the Prisoners Convicted, and to bring forth Iohn Bulcocke, Iane Bulcocke his mother, and Alison Device, Prisoners in the Castle at Lancaster, to receive their Trials.
Who were brought to their Arraignment and Trial as hereafter follows.

 



THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of IOHN BVLCOCK and IANE BVLCOCK his mother, wife of C??????ISTOPHER BVLCOCK, of the Mosse-end, in the County of Lancaster, for Witch-craft: upon Wednesday in the afternoon, the nineteenth of August, 1612. At the Assizes and general Gaol delivery, holden at Lancaster. Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY, Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assizes at Lancaster.

John Bulcock, and Jane Bulcock his mother.
IF there were nothing to charge these Prisoners withal, whom now you may behold upon their Arraignment and Trial but their posting in haste to the great Assembly at Malking-Tower, there to advise and consult amongst the Witches, what were to bee done to set at liberty the Witches in the Castle at Lancaster: Join with Jennet Preston for the murder of Master Lister; and such like wicked & devilish practises:



It were sufficient to accuse them for Witches, & to bring their lives to a lawful Trial. But amongst all the Witches in this company, there is not a more fearful and devilish Act committed, and voluntarily confessed by any of them, comparable to this, under the degree of Murder??? which impudently now (at the Bar having formerly confessed;) they forswear, swearing they were never at the great assembly at Milking Tower; although the very Witches that were present in that action with them, justify, maintain, and swear the same to be true against them: Crying out in very violent & outrageous manner, even to the gallows, where they died impenitent for any thing we know, because they died silent in the particulars. These of all others were the most desperate wretches (void of all fear or grace) in all this Pack; Their offences not much inferior to Murder: for which you shall hear what matter of Record wee have against them; and whether they be worthy to continue, we leave it to the good consideration of the Jury.
The said Iohn Bulcock, and Iane Bulcock his mother, Prisoners in the Castle at Lancaster, being brought to the Bar before the great Seat of Justice: were there according to the former order and course Indicted and Arraigned, for that they feloniously had practised, exercised and used their devilish & wicked Arts, called Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms and Sorceries, in and upon the body of Jennet Deane: so as the body of the said Jennet Deane, by force of the said Witchcrafts, wasted and consumed; and after she, the said Jennet, became mad. Country formam Statute, &c. Et Country Pacem, &c.

Upon their Arraignment, to this Indictment they pleaded not guilty; and for the trial of their lives put

 


themselves upon God and their Country.
So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of Life and Death stand charged with them as with others.

The Evidence against Iohn Bulcock, and Iane Bulcock his mother, Prisoners at the Bar.


The Examination of IAMES DEVICE taken the seven and twentieth day of April aforesaid. Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster. Against IOHN BVLCOCK and IANE BVLCOCK his mother.
THis Examinate saith, That upon Good-Friday, about twelve of the clock in the day time, there dined in this Examinates said Mothers house a number of persons, whereof three were men with this Examinate and the rest women, and that they met there for these three causes following, as this Examinates said mother told this Examinate. The first was, for the naming of the Spirit which Allison Device, now prisoner at Lancaster had, but did not name him, because she was not there. The second cause was, for the delivery of his said Grand-mother; this Examinates said sister Allison; the said Anne Chattox, and her daughter Redferne, killing



the Jailer at Lancaster, and before the next Assizes to blow up the Castle there, to that end the aforesaid prisoners might by that means make an escape, and get away: All which this Examinate then heard them confer of.
And he also saith, That the names of such said Witches as were on Good-Friday at this Examinates said Grand-mothers house, and now this Examinates own mothers, for so many of them as he did know, were these, viz. Iane Bulcock, wife of Christopher Bulcock, of the Moss end, and Iohn her son amongst others, &c.

And this Examinate further saith, That all the said Witches went out of the said house in their own shapes and likenesses: and they all, by that they were forth of the doors, were gotten on horse-backe, like unto Foales, some of one colour, and some of another, and Prestons wife was the last: and when she got on horse-backe, they all presently vanished out of this Examinates sight.

And further he saith, That the said Iohn Bulcock and Iane his said Mother, did confess upon Good-Friday last, at the said Malking-Tower, in the hearing of this Examinate, That they had bewitched, at the new-field Edge in Yorkshire, a woman called Jennet, wife of Iohn Deign, besides, her Reason; and the said Women's name so bewitched, he did not hear them speak of??? And this Examinate further saith, That at the said Feast at Malking-Tower this Examinate heard them all give their consents to put the said Master Thomas Lister of Westby to death. And after Master Lister should be made away by Witch-craft, then all the said Witches gave their consents to join all together, to hanck Master

 


Leonard Lister, when he should come to dwell at the Cow-gill, and so put him to death.

The Examination of ELIZABETH DEVICE, Taken the day and year aforesaid, Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster, Against IOHN BVLCOCK, and IANE BVLCOCK, his mother.
THis Examinate saith upon her oath, That she doth verily think, that the said Bulcockes wife doth know of some Witches to bee about Padyham and Burnley.

And she further saith, That at the said meeting at Malking-Tower, as aforesaid, Katherine Hewit and Iohn Bulcock, with all the rest then there, gave their consents, with the said Prestons wife, for the killing of the said Master Lister.





The Examination and Evidence of JENNET DEVICE Against IOHN BVLCOCKE and IANE his mother, prisoners at the Bar.
THe said Examinate saith, That upon Good-Friday last there was about twenty persons, whereof two were men, to this Examinates remembrance, at her said Grand-mothers house, called Malking-Tower aforesaid: all which persons, this Examinates said mother told her were Witches, and that she knows the names of six of the said Witches.

Then was the said Jennet Device commanded by his Lordship to find and point out the said Iohn Bulcock and Iane Bulcock amongst all the rest: whereupon she went and took Iane Bulcock by the hand, accused her to be one, and told her in what place she sat at the Feast at Malking-Tower, at the great Assembly of the Witches; and who sat next her: and accused the said Iohn Bulcock to turn the Spit there; what conference they had, and all the rest of their proceedings at large, without any manner of contrariety.

She further told his Lordship, there was a woman that came out of Craven to that Great Feast at Malking-Tower, but she could not find her out amongst all those women.

 



?? The names of the Witches at the Great Assembly and Feast at Malking-Tower, viz. upon Good-Friday last, 1612.
Elizabeth Device.
Alice Nutter.
Katherine Hewit, alias Mould-heeles.
John Bulcock.
Jane Bulcock.
Alice Gray.
Janet Hargraues.
Elizabeth Hargraues.
Christopher Howgate, Son to old Dembdike.
Christopher Hargraues.



Grace Hay, of Padiham.
Anne Crunckshey, of Marchden.
Elizabeth Howgate.
Janet Preston, Executed at York for the Murder of Master Lister.
With many more, which being bound over to appear at the last Assizes, are since that time fled to save themselves.

 



THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of ALISON DEVICE, Daughter of ELIZABETH DEVICE, within the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster aforesaid, for Witch-craft.

Alison Device.
BEhold, above all the rest, this lamentable spectacle of a poor distressed Peddler; how miserably he was tormented, and what punishment he endured for a small offence, by the wicked and damnable practise of this odious Witch, first instructed therein by old Dembdike her Grand-mother, of whose life and death with her good conditions, I have written at large before in the beginning of this work, out of her own Examinations and other Records, now remaining with the Clarke of the Crown at Lancaster: And by her Mother brought up in this detestable course of life; wherein I pray you observe but the manner and course of it in order, even to the last period at her Execution, for this horrible fact, able to terrify and astonish any man living.

This Alison Device, Prisoner in the Castle of Lancaster,



being brought to the Bar before the great Seat of Justice, was there according to the former order and course indicted and arraigned, for that she feloniously had practised, exercised, and used her Devilish and wicked Arts, called Witch-craf???s, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in, and upon one Iohn Law, a Petti-chapman, and him had lamed, so that his body wasted and consumed, &c. Country formam Statute, &c. Et country pacem dicti Domini Regis, Coronam & Dignitatem, &c.
Upon the Arraignment, The poor Peddler, by name Iohn Law, being in the Castle about the Moot-hall, attending to be called, not well able to go or stand, being led thither by his poor son Abraham Law: My Lord Gerard moved the Court to call the poor Peddler, who was there ready, and had attended all the Assizes, to give evidence for the Kings Majesty, against the said Alison Device, Prisoner at the Bar, even now upon her Trial. The Prisoner being at the Bar, & now beholding the Peddler, deformed by her Witch-craft, and transformed beyond the course of Nature, appeared to give evidence against her; having not yet pleaded to her Indictment, saw it was in vain to deny it, or stand upon her justification: She humbly upon her knees at the Bar with weeping tears, prayed the Court to hear her.

Whereupon my Lord Bromley commanded she should bee brought out from the Prisoners near unto the Court, and there on her knees, she humbly asked forgiveness for her offence: And being required to make an open declaration or confession of her offence: She confessed as follows. viz.

 



The Confession of ALISON DEVICE, Prisoner at the Bar: published and declared at time of her Arraignment and Trial in open Court.
SHe saith, That about two years agony, her Grand-mother, called Elizabeth Sothernes, alias Dembdike, did (sundry times in going or walking together, as they went begging) persuade and advise this Examinate to let a Devil or a Familiar appear to her, and that she, this Examinate would let him suck at some part of her; and she might have and doe what she would. And so not long after these persuasions, this Examinate being walking towards the Rough-Lee, in a Close of one Iohn Robinsons, there appeared unto her a thing like unto a Black Dog: speaking unto her, this Examinate, and desiring her to give him her Soul, and he would give her power to doe any thing she would: whereupon this Examinate being therewithal enticed, and setting her down; the said Blacke-Dogge did with his mouth (as this Examinate then thought) suck at her breast, a little below her Paps, which place did remain blew half a year next after: which said Blacke-Dogge did not appear to this Examinate, until the eighteenth day of March last: at which time this Examinate met with a Peddler on the high-way, called Colne-field, near unto Colne: and this Examinate demanded of the said Peddler to buy some pins of him; but the said Peddler sturdily answered this Examinate that he would not loose his Pack; and so this Examinate parting with him: presently there appeared to this Examinate the Blacke-Dogge, which appeared unto her as before: which Black



Dog spake unto this Examinate in English, saying; What would thou have me to do unto yonder man? to whom this Examinate said, What can thou do at him? and the Dog answered again, I can lame him: whereupon this Examinat answered, and said to the said Black Dog, Lame him: and before the Peddler was gone fortes Rods further, he fell down Lame: and this Examinate then went after the said Peddler; and in a house about the distance aforesaid, he was lying Lame: and so this Examinate went begging in Trawden Forest that day, and came home at night: and about five days next after, the said Black-Dogge did appear to this Examinate, as she was going a begging, in a Close near the New-Church in Pendle, and spake again to her, saying; Stay and speak with me; but this Examinate would not: Since which time this Examinat never saw him.
Which agrees verbatim with her own Examination taken at Read, in the County of Lancaster, the thirtieth day of March, before Master Novel, when she was apprehended and taken.

MY Lord Bromley, and all the whole Court not a little wondering, as they had good cause, at this liberal and voluntary confession of the Witch; which is not ordinary with people of their condition and quality: and beholding also the poor distressed Peddler, standing by, commanded him upon his oath to declare the manner how, and in what sort he was handled; how he came to be lame, and so to be deformed; who deposed upon his oath, as follows.

 



The Evidence of IOHN LAW, Petty Chapman, upon his oath: Against ALISON DEVICE, Prisoner at the Bar.
HE deposes and saith, That about the eighteenth of March last past, he being a Peddler, went with his Pack of wares at his back thorough Colne-field: where unluckily he met with Alison Device, now Prisoner at the Bar, who was very earnest with him for pins, but he would give her none: whereupon she seemed to be very angry; and when he was past her, he fell down lame in great extremity; and afterwards by means got into an Ale-house in Colne, near unto the place where he was first bewitched: and as he lay there in great pain, not able to stir either hand or foot; he saw a great Black-Dogge stand by him, with very fearful fiery eyes, great teeth, and a terrible countenance, looking him in the face; whereat he was very sore afraid: and immediately after came in the said Alison Device, who staid not long there, but looked on him, and went away.

After which time he was tormented both day and night with the said Alison Device; and so continued lame, not able to travel or take pains ever since that time: which with weeping tears in great passion turned to the Prisoner; in the hearing of all the Court he said to her, This thou know to be too true: and thereupon she humbly acknowledged the same, and cried out to God to forgive her; and upon her knees with weeping tears, humbly prayed him to forgive her that wicked offence; which he very freely and voluntarily did.





Hereupon Master Novel standing up, humbly prayed the favour of the Court, in respect this Fact of Witchcraft was more eminent and apparent then the rest, that for the better satisfaction of the Audience, the Examination of Abraham Law might be read in Court.

The Examination of ABRAHAM LAW, of Halifax, in the County of York, Cloth-dier, taken upon oath the thirtieth day of March, 1612. Before ROGER NOVVEL, Esquire, aforesaid.
BEing sworn and examined, saith, That upon Saturday last save one, being the one and twentieth day of this instant March, he, this Examinate was sent for, by a letter that came from his father, that he should come to his father, Iohn Law, who then lay in Colne speechless, and had the left-side lamed all save his eye: and when this Examinate came to his father, his said father had something recovered his speech, and did complain that he was pricked with Knives, Elsons and Sickles and that the same hurt was done unto him at Colne-field, presently after that Alison Device had offered to buy some pins of him, and she had no money to pay for them withal; but as this Examinates father told this Examinate, he gave her some pins. And this Examinate further saith, That he heard his said father say??? that the hurt he had in his lameness was done unto him by the said Alison Device, by Witchcraft. And this

 


Examinate further saith, that he heard his said Father further say, that the said Alison Device did lie upon him and trouble him. And this Examinate seeing his said Father so tormented with the said Alison and with one other old woman, whom this Examinates Father did not know as it seemed: This Examinate made search after the said Alison, and having found her, brought her to his said Father yesterday being the nine & twentieth of this instant March: whose said Father in the hearing of this Examinate and divers others did charge the said Alison to have bewitched him, which the said Alison confessing did ask this Examinates said Father forgiveness upon her knees for the same; whereupon this Examines Father accordingly did forgive her. Which Examination in open Court upon his oath he justified to be true.
Whereupon it was there affirmed to the Court that this Iohn Law the Peddler, before his unfortunate meeting with this Witch, was a very able sufficient stout man of Body, and a goodly man of Stature. But by this Devilish art of Witch-craft his head is drawn awry, his Eyes and face deformed, His speech not well to bee understood; his Thighs and Legs starcke lame: his Arms lame especially the left side, his hands lame and turned out of their course, his Body able to endure no travel: and thus remains at this present time.

The Prisoner being examined by the Court whether she could help the poor Peddler to his former strength and health??? she answered she could not, and so did many of the rest of the Witches: But she, with others, affirmed, That if old Dembdike had lived, she could and would have helped him out of that great misery,



which so long he hath endured for so small an offence, as you have heard.
These things being thus openly published against her, and she knowing her self to be guilty of every particular, humbly acknowledged the Indictment against her to be true, and that she was guilty of the offence therein contained, and that she had justly deserved death for that and many other such like: whereupon she was carried away, until she should come to the Bar to receive her judgement of death.

Oh, who was present at this lamentable spectacle, that was not moved with pity to behold it!

Hereupon my Lord Gerard, Sir Richard Houghton, and others, who much pitied the poor Peddler, At the entreaty of my Lord Bromley the Judge, promised some present course should be taken for his relief and maintenance; being now discharged and sent away.

But here I may not let her posse; for that I find something more upon Record to charge her withal: for although she were but a young Witch, of a years standing, and thereunto induced by Dembdike her Grand-mother, as you have formerly heard, yet she was spotted with innocent blood among the rest: for in one part of the Examination of Iames Device, her brother, he deposes as follows, viz.

 



The Examination of IAMES DEVICE, brother to the said ALISON DEVICE, Taken upon Oath Before ROGER NOVVEL Esquire, aforesaid, the thirtieth day of March, 1612.
IAmes Device, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, Labourer, sworn and examined, saith, That about Saint Peters day last one Henry Bulcock came to the house of Elizabeth Sothernes, alias Dembdike, Grand-mother to this Examinate, and said, That the said Alison Device had bewitched a Child of his, and desired her, that she would go with him to his house: which accordingly she did: and thereupon she the said Alison fell down on her knees, and asked the said Bulcock forgiveness; and confessed to him??? that she had bewitched the said Child, as this Examinate heard his said sister confess unto him this Examinate.

And although she were never indicted for this offence, yet being matter upon Record??? I thought it convenient to join it unto her former Fact.

HEre the Jury of Life and Death having spent the most part of the day in due consideration of their offences, returned into the Court to deliver up their Verdict against them, as follows.





The ??erdict of Life and Death.
WHo upon their Oaths found Iohn Bulcock and Iane Bulcock his mother, not guilty of the Felony by Witch-craft, contained in the Indictment against them.

Alison Device convicted upon her own Confession.

Whereupon Master Couel was commanded by the Court to take away the Prisoners convicted, and to bring forth Margaret Pearson, and Isabel Robey, Prisoners in the Castle at Lancaster, to receive their Trial.

Who were brought to their Arraignment and Trials, as hereafter follows, viz.

 



THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of MARGARET PEARSON of Paddiham, in the County of Lancaster, for Witchcraft; the nineteenth of August 1612, at the Assizes and General Gaole-deliuerie, holden at Lancaster, Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assise at Lancaster.

Margaret Pearson.
THus far have I proceeded in hope your patience will endure the end of this discourse, which craves time, and were better not begun at all, then not perfected.

This Margaret Pearson was the wife of Edward Pearson of Paddiham, in the County of Lancaster; little inferior in her wicked and malicious course of life to any that hath gone before her: A very dangerous Witch of long continuance, generally suspected and feared in all parts of the Country, and of all good people near her, and not without great cause: For whosoever gave her any just occasion of offence, she tormented



with great misery, or cut off their children, goods, or friends.
This wicked and ungodly Witch revenged her fury upon goods, so that every one near her sustained great loss. I place her in the end of these notorious Witches, by reason her judgment is of an other Nature, according to her offence; yet had not the favour and mercy of the Jury been more then her desert, you had found her next to old Dembdike; for this is the third time she is come to receive her Trial; one time for murder by Witch-craft; an other time for bewitching a Neighbour; now for goods.

How long she hath been a Witch, the Devil and she knows best.

The Accusations, Depositions, and particular Examinations upon Record against her are infinite, and were able to fill a large Volume; But since she is now only to receive her Trial for this last offence. I shall proceed against her in order, and set forth what matter we have upon Record, to charge her withal.

This Margaret Pearson, Prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster: Being brought to the Bar before the great Seat of Justice; was there according to the course and order of the Law Indicted and Arraigned, for that she had practised, exercised, and used her devilish and wicked Arts, called Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms and Sorceries, and one Horse or Mare of the goods and Chattels of one Dodgeson of Padiham, in the County of Lancaster, wickedly, maliciously, and voluntarily did kill. Country formam Statute, &c. Et country Pacem dicti Domini Regis. &c.

 


Upon her Arraignment to this Indictment, she pleaded not guilty; And for the trial of her life put her self upon God and her Country.
So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of her offence and death, stand charged with her as with others.

The Evidence against Margaret Pearson, Prisoner at the Bar.


The Examination and Evidence of ANNE WHITTLE, alias CHATTOX. Against MARGARET PEARSON, Prisoner at the Bar.
THe said Anne Chattox being examined saith, That the wife of one Pearson of Paddiham, is a very evil Woman, and confessed to this Examinate, that she is a Witch, and hath a Spirit which came to her the first time in likeness of a Man, and cloven footed, and that she the said Persons wife hath done very much harm to one Dodgesons goods, who came in at a loope-hole into the said Dodgesons Stable, and she and her Spirit together did sit upon his Horse or Mare, until the said Horse or Mare died. And likewise, that she the said Persons wife did confess unto her this Examinate, that she bewitched unto death one Childers wife, and her Daughter, and that she the said Persons wife is as ill as she.





The Examination of JENNET BOOTH, of Paddiham, in the County of Lancaster, the ninth day of August 1612. Before NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquire; one of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster.
Jennet, the wife of Iames Booth, of Paddiham, upon her oath saith, That the Friday next after, the said Persons wife, was committed to the Gaol at Lancaster, this Examinate was carding in the said Persons house, having a little child with her, and willed the said Margerie to give her a little Milk, to make her said child a little meat, who fetched this Examinate some, and put it in a pan; this examinat meaning to set it on the fire, found the said fire very ill, and taking up a stick that lay by her, and brake it in three or four pieces, and laid upon the coals to kindle the same, then set the pan and milk on the fire: and when the milk was boiled to this Examinates content, she took the pan wherein the milk was, off the said fire, and with all, under the bottom of the same, there came a Toad, or a thing very like a Toad, and to this Examinates thinking came out of the fire, together with the said Pan, and under the bottom of the same, and that the said Margerie did carry the said Toad out of the said house in a pair of tongues; But what she the said Margerie did therewith, this Examinate knows not.

After this were divers witnesses examined against her in open Court, viva voce, to prove the death of the Mare,

 


and divers other wild and odious practises by her committed, who upon their Examinations made it so apparent to the Jury as there was no question??? But because the fact is of no great importance, in respect her life is not in question by this Indictment, and the Depositions and examinations are many, I leave to trouble you with any more of them, for being found guilty of this offence, the penalty of the Law is as much as her good??? Neighbours doe require, which is to be delivered from the company of such a dangerous, wicked, and malicious Witch. ???




THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of ISABEL ROBEY in the County of Lancaster, for Witch-craft: upon Wednesday the nineteenth of August, 1612. At the Assizes and general Gaole-deliuery, holden at Lancaster. Before Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY, Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assizes at Lancaster.

Isabel Robey.
THus at one time may you behold Witches of all sorts from many places in this County of Lancaster which now may lawfully bee said to abound as much in Witches of divers kinds as Seminaries, Iesuites, and Papists. Here then is the last that came to act her part in this lamentable and woeful Tragedy, wherein in his Majesty hath lost somany Subjects, Mothers their Children, Fathers their Friends, and Kinsfolks the like whereof of hath not been set forth in any age. What hath the Kings Majesty written and published in his Daemonologie, by way of premonition and prevention, which hath not here by the first or last

 


been executed, put in practise or discovered? What Witches have ever upon their Arraignment and Trial made such open liberal and voluntary declarations of their lives, and such confessions of their offences: The manner of their attempts and their bloody practises, their meetings, consultations and what not? Therefore I shall now conclude with this Isabel Robey who is now come to her trial.
This Isabel Robey Prisoner in the Castle at Lancaster being brought to the Bar before the great Seat of Justice was there according to the former order and course Indicted and Arraigned, for that she Feloniously had practised, exercised and used her Devilish and wicked Arts called Witchcrafts, Inchantmnnts, Charms and Sorceries.

Upon her Arraignment to this Indictment she pleaded not guilty, and for the trial of her life, put her self upon God and her Country.

So as now the Gentlemen of the Jury of life and death stand charged with her as with others.

The Evidence against Isabel Robey Prisoner at the Bar.





The Examination of PETER CHADDOCK of Windle, in the County of Lancaster: Taken at Windle aforesaid, the 12. day of July 1612. Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI, Anglia, &c. decimo??? & Scotiae xlv. Before Sir THOMAS GERARD Knight, and Baronet. One of his Majesties Justices of the Peace within the said County.
THe said Examinate upon his Oath saith, That before his Marriage he heard say that the said Isabel Robey was not pleased that he should marry his now wife: whereupon this Examinate called the said Isabel Witch, and said that he did not care for her. Then within two days next after this Examinate was sore pained in his bones: And this Examinate having occasion to meet Master Iohn Hawarden at Peaseley Cross, wished one Thomas Lyon to go thither with him, which they both did so; but as they came home-wards, they both were in evil case. But within a short time after, this Examinate and the said Thomas Lyon were both very well amended.

And this Examinate further saith, that about four years last past, his now wife was angry with the said Isabel, she then being in his house, and his said Wife thereupon went out of the house, and presently after that the said Isabel went likewise out of the house not well pleased, as this Examinate then did think, and presently after upon the same day, this Examinate with his said wife working in the Hay, a pain and a starkness fell into the neck of this Examinat which grieved him very

 


whereupon this Examinate sent to one Iames a Glover, which then dwelt in Windle, and desired him to pray for him, and within four or five days next after this Examinate did mend very well. Nevertheless this Examinate during the same time was very sore pained, and so thirsty withal, and hot within his body, that he would have given any thing he had, to have slaked his thirst, having drink enough in the house, and yet could not drink until the time that the said Iames the Glover came to him, and this Examinate then said before the said Glover, I would to God that I could drink, where upon the said Glover said to this Examinate, take that drink, and in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, drink it, saying; The Devil and Witches are not able to prevail against GOD and his Word, whereupon this Examinate then took the glass of drink, and did drink it all, and afterwards mended very well, and so did continue in good health, until our Lady day in Lent was twelve month or thereabouts, since which time this Examinate saith, that he hath been sore pained with great warch in his bones, and all his limbs, and so yet continues, and this Examinate further saith, that his said warch and pain came to him rather by means of the said Isabel Robey, then otherwise, as he verily thinks.




The Examination of IANE WILKINSON, Wife of FRANCIS WILKINSON, of Windle aforesaid: Taken before the said Sir THOMAS GERARD, Knight and Baronet, the day and place aforesaid. Against the said ISABEL ROBEY.
THe said Examinate upon her oath saith, that upon a time the said Isabel Robey asked her milk, and she denied to give her any: And afterwards she met the said Isabel, whereupon this Examinate waxed afraid of her, and was then presently sick, and so pained that she could not stand, and the next day after this Examinate going to Warrington, was suddenly pinched on her Thigh as she thought, with four fingers & a Thumb twice together, and thereupon was sick, in so much as she could not get home but on horse-backe, yet soon after she did mend.


The Examination of MARGARET LYON wife of THOMAS LYON the younger, of Windle aforesaid: Taken before the said Sir THOMAS GERARD, Knight and Baronet, the day and place aforesaid. Against the said ISABEL ROBEY.
THe said Margaret Lyon upon her Oath saith, that upon a time Isabel Robey came into her house and said that Peter Chaddock should never mend until he had asked her forgiveness; and that she knew he would never doe: whereupon this Examinate said, how doe

 


you know that, for he is a true Christian, and he would ask all the world forgiveness? then the said Isabel said, that is all one, for he will never ask me forgiveness, therefore he shall never mend; And this Examinate further saith, that she being in the house of the said Peter??? Chaddock, the wife of the said Peter, who is God-Daughter of the said Isabel, and hath in times past used her company much, did affirm, that the said Peter was now satisfied, that the said Isabel Robey was no Witch, by sending to one Halseworths, which they call a wiseman, and the wife of the said Peter then said, to abide upon it, I think that my Husband will never mend until he have asked her forgiveness, choose him whether he will bee angry or pleased, for this is my opinion: to which he answered, when he did need to ask her forgiveness, he would, but he thought he did not need, for any thing he knew: and yet this Examinate further saith, That the said Peter Chaddock had very often told her, that he was very afraid that the said Isabel had done him much hurt; and that he being fearful to meet her, he hath turned back at such time as he did meet her alone, which the said Isabel hath since then affirmed to be true, saying, that he the said Peter did turn again when he met her in the Lane.




The Examination of MARGARET PARRE wife of HVGH PARRE of Windle aforesaid. Taken before the said Sir THOMAS GERARD Knight and Baronet, the day and place aforesaid. Against the said ISABEL ROBEY.
THE said Examinate upon her oath saith, that upon a time, the said Isabel Robey came to her house, and this Examinate asked her how Peter Chaddock did, And the said Isabel answered she knew not, for she went not to see, and then this Examinate asked her how Iane Wilkinson did, for that she had been lately sick and suspected to have been bewitched: then the said Isabel said twice together, I have bewitched her too: and then this Examinate said that she trusted she could bless her self from all Witches and defied them; and then the said Isabel said twice together, would you defy me? & afterwards the said Isabel went away not well pleased.

Here the Gentlemen of the last Jury of Life and Death having taken great pains, the time being far spent, and the number of the Prisoners great, returned into the Court to deliver up their Verdict against them as follows. viz.


The ??erdict of Life and Death.
WHo upon their Oaths found the said Isabel Robey guilty of the Felony by Witch-craft, contained

 


in the Indictment against her. And Margaret Pearson guilty of the offence by Witch-craft, contained in the Indictment against her.
Whereupon Master Couell was commanded by the Court in the afternoon to bring forth all the Prisoners that stood Convicted, to receive their Judgment of Life and Death.

For his Lordship now intended to proceed to a final dispatch of the Pleas of the Crown. And here ends the Arraignment and Trial of the Witches at Lancaster.

THus at the length have we brought to perfection this intended Discovery of Witches, with the Arraignment and Trial of every one of them in order, by the help of Almighty God, and this Reverend Judge; the Lantern from whom I have received light to direct me in this course to the end. And as in the beginning, I presented unto their view a Calendar containing the names of all the witches: So now, I shall present unto you in the conclusion and end, such as stand convicted, and come to the Bar to receive the judgment of the Law for their offences, and the proceedings of the Court against such as were acquitted, and found not guilty: with the religious Exhortation of this Honourable Judge, as eminent in gifts and graces as in place and preeminence, which I may lawfully affirm without base flattery (the canker of all honest and worthy minds) drew the eyes and reverend respect of all that great Audience present, to hear their Judgment, and the end of these proceedings.





The Prisoners being brought to the Bar.
THe Court commanded three solemn Proclamations for silence, until Judgment for Life and Death were given.

Whereupon I presented to his Lordship the names of the Prisoners in order, which were now to receive their Judgment. {inverted ???}

 



?? The names of the Prisoners at the Bar to receive their Judgement of Life and Death.
Anne Whittle, alias Chattox.
Elizabeth Device.
James Device.
Anne Redferne.
Alice Nutter.
Katherine Hewet.
John Bulcock.
Jane Bulcock.
Alison Device.
Isabel Robey.




THE IVDGEMENT OF THE RIGHT HONOURABLE Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY, Knight, one of his Majesties Justices of Assize at Lancaster upon the Witches convicted, as follows.
THere is no man alive more unwilling to pronounce this woeful and heavy Judgment against you, then my self: and if it were possible, I would to God this cup might posse from me. But since it is otherwise provided, that after all proceedings of the Law, there must be a Judgment; and the Execution of that Judgment must succeed and follow in due time: I pray you have patience to receive that which the Law doth lay upon you. You of all people have the least cause to complain: since in the Trial of your lives there hath been great care and pains taken, and much time spent: and very few or none of you, but stand convicted upon your own voluntary confessions and Examinations, Ex ore proprio: Few Witnesses examined against you, but such as were present, and parties in your Assemblies. Nay I may further affirm, What persons of your nature and condition, ever were Arraigned and Tried with more solemnity, had more liberty given to plead or answer to every particular point of Evidence against you? In conclusion such hath been the

 


general care of all, that had to deal with you, that you have neither cause to be offended in the proceedings of the Justices, that first took pains in these businesses, nor with the Court that hath had great care to give nothing in evidence against you, but matter of fact; Sufficient matter upon Record, and not to induce, or lead the Jury to find any one of you guilty upon m??tter of suspicion or presumption, nor with the witnesses who have been tried, as it were in the fire: Nay, you cannot deny but must confess what extraordinary means hath been used to make trial of their evidence, and to discover the least intended practice in any one of them, to touch your lives unjustly.
As you stand simply (your offences and bloody practises not considered) your fall would rather move compassion, then exasperate any man. For whom would not the ruin of so many poor creatures at one time, touch, as in appearance simple, and of little understanding?

But the blood of those innocent children, and others his Majesties Subjects, whom cruelly and barbarously you have murdered, and cut off, with all the rest of your offences, hath cried out unto the Lord against you, and solicited for satisfaction and revenge, and that hath brought this heavy judgment upon you at this time.

It is therefore now time no longer wilfully to strive, both against the providence of God, and the Justice of the Land: the more you labour to acquit your selves, the more evident and apparent you make your offences to the World. And unpossible it is that they shall either prosper or continue in this World, or receive reward in the next, that are stained with so much innocent blood.

The worst then I wish to you, standing at the Bar convicted, to receive your Judgment, is, Remorse, and true Repentance,



for the safeguard of your Souls, and after??? an humble, penitent, and hearty acknowledgement of your grievous sins and offences committed both against GOD and Man.
First, yield humble and hearty thanks to Almighty GOD for taking hold of you in your beginning, and making stay of your intended bloody practises (although GOD knows there is too much done already) which would in time have cast so great a weight of Judgment upon your Souls.

Then praise GOD that it pleased him not to surprise or strike you suddenly, even in the execution of your bloody Murders, and in the midst of your wicked practises, but hath given you time, and takes you away by a judicial course and trial of the Law.

Last of all, crave pardon of the World, and especially of all such as you have justly offended, either by tormenting themselves, children, or friends, murder of their kinsfolks, or loss of any their goods.

And for leaving to future times the president of so many barbarous and bloody murders, with such meetings, practises, consultations, and means to execute revenge, being the greatest part of your comfort in all your actions, which may instruct others to hold the like course, or fall in the like sort:

It only remains I pronounce the Judgment of the Court against you by the Kings authority, which is; You shall all go from hence to the Castle, from whence you came; from thence you shall bee carried to the place of Execution for this County: where your bodies shall bee hanged until you be dead; And GOD HAVE MERCY UPON YOVR SOVLES: For your comfort in this world I shall commend a learned and worthy Preacher

 


to instruct you, and prepare you for an other World: All I can doe for you is to pray for your Repentance in this World, for the satisfaction of many; And forgiveness in the next world, for saving of your Souls. And God grant you may make good use of the time you have in this World, to his glory and your own comfort.

Margaret Pearson.
THe Judgment of the Court against you, is, You shall stand upon the Pillory in open Market, at Clitheroe, Paddiham, Wholly, and Lancaster, four Market days, with a Paper upon your head, in great Letters, declaring your offence, and there you shall confess your offence, and after to remain in Prison for one year without Bail, and after to be bound with good Suerties, to be of the good behaviour.





To the Prisoners found not guilty by the IVRIES.
Elizabeth Astley.
John Ramsden.
Alice Gray.
Isabel Sidegraues.
Lawrence Hay.
TO you that are found not guilty, and are by the Law to bee acquitted, presume no further of your Innocence then you have just cause: for although it pleased God out of his Mercy, to spare you at this time, yet without question there are amongst you, that are as deep in this Action, as any of them that are condemned to die for their offences: The time is now for you to forsake the Devil: Remember how, and in what sort he hath dealt with all of you: make good use of this great mercy and favour: and pray unto God you fall not again: For great is your happiness to have time in this World, to prepare your selves against the day when you shall appear before the Great Judge of all.

Notwithstanding, the judgment of the Court, is, You shall all enter Recognizances with good sufficient Suerties, to appear at the next Assizes at Lancaster, and in the mean time to be of the good behaviour. All I can say to you:

 


Janet Bierley,
Ellen Bierley,
Jane Southworth,
is, That GOD hath delivered you beyond expectation, I pray GOD you may use this mercy and favour well; and take heed you fall not hereafter: And so the Court doth order you shall be delivered.
What more can bee written or published of the proceedings of this honourable Court: but to conclude with the Execution of the Witches, who were executed the next day following at the common place of Execution, near unto Lancaster. Yet in the end give me leave to entreat some favour that have been afraid to speak until my work were finished. If I have omitted any thing material, or published any thing imperfect, excuse me for that I have done: It was a work imposed upon me by the Judges in respect I was so well instructed in every particular. In hast I have undertaken to finish it in a busy Term amongst my other imploiments.

My charge was to publish the proceedings of Justice, and matter of Fact, wherein I wanted liberty to write what I would, and am limited to set forth nothing against them, but matter upon Record, even in their own Country terms, which may seem strange. And this I hope will give good satisfaction to such as understand how to judge of a business of this nature. Such as have no other employment but to question other men's Actions, I leave them to censure what they please, It is no part of my profession to publish any thing in



print, neither can I paint in extraordinary terms. But if this discovery may serve for your instruction, I shall think my self very happy in this Service, and so leave it to your general censure.
Da ueniam Ignoto non displicuisse meretur,
Festinat studijs qui placuisse tibi.
 





THE ARRAIGNMENT AND TRIAL OF JENNET PRESTON, OF GISBORNE IN CRAVEN, in the County of York.

At the Assizes and General Gaol??? Delivery holden at the Castle of York in the County of York, the xxvij. day of July last past, Anno Regni Regis IACOBI Anglia, &c. Decimo, & Scotiae quadragesimo quinto.

Before Sir IAMES ALTHAM Knight, one of the Barons of his Majesties Court of Exchequer; and Sir EDVVARD BROMLEY Knight, another of the Barons of his Majesties Court of Exchequer; his Majesties Justices of Assise, Over and Terminer, and general Gaole-Deliuerie, in the Circuit of the North-parts.

LONDON, Printed by W. STANSBY for IOHN BARNES, and are to be sold at his Shop near Holborn Conduit, 1612.

 






THE ARRAIGNMENT and Trial of JENNET PRESTON of Gisborne in Craven, in the County of York, at the Assizes and General Gaole-deliuerie, holden at the Castle of York, in the County of York, the seven and twentieth day of July last past. Anno Regni Regis Iacobi Anglia &c. Decimo & Scotiae xlvj.

Janet Preston.
MANY have undertaken to write great discourses of Witches and many more dispute and speak of them. And it were not much if as many wrote of them as could write at al, to set forth to the world the particular Rites and Secrets of their unlawful Arts, with their infinite and wonderful practises which many men little fear till they seize upon them. As by this late wonderful discovery of Witches in the County of Lancaster may appear, wherein I find such apparent matter to satisfy the World, how dangerous and malicious a

 


Witch this Jennet Preston was, How unfit to live, having once so great mercy extended to her: And again to revive her practises, and return to her former course of life, that I think it necessary not to let the memory of her life and death die with her; But to place her next to her fellows and to set forth the Arraignment Trial and Conviction of her, with her offences for which she was condemned and executed.
And a though she died for her offence before the rest, I yet can afford her no better place then in the end of this Book in respect the proceedings was in an other County;

You that were husband to this Jennet Preston; her friends and kinsfolks, who have not been sparing to devise so scandalous a slander out of the malice of your hearts, as that she was maliciously prosecuted by Master Lister and others; Her life unjustly taken away by practise; and that (even at the Gallows where she died impenitent and void of all fear or grace) she died an Innocent woman, because she would confess nothing: You I say may not hold it strange, though at this time, being not only moved in conscience, but directed, for example sake, with that which I have to report of her, I suffer you not to wander any further; but with this short discourse oppose your idle conceits able to seduce others: And by Charms of Imputations and slander, laid upon the Justice of the Land, to clear her that was justly condemned and executed for her offence; That this Jennet Preston was for many years well thought of and esteemed by Master Lister who afterwards died for it Had free access to his house, kind respect and entertainment; nothing denied her she

stood in need of. Which of you that dwells near them in Craven but can and will witness it? which might have encouraged a Woman of any good condition to have run a better course.
The favour and goodness of this Gentleman Master Lister now living, at his first entrance after the death of his Father extended towards her, and the relief she had at all times, with many other favours that succeeded from time to time, are so palpable and evident to all men as no man can deny them. These were sufficient motives to have persuaded her from the murder of so good a friend.

But such was her execrable Ingratitude, as even this grace and goodness was the cause of his miserable and untimely death. And even in the beginning of his greatest favours extended to her, began she to work this mischief, according to the course of all Witches.

This Jennet Preston, whose Arraignment and Trial, with the particular Evidence against her I am now to set forth unto you, one that lived at Gisborne in Craven, in the County of York, near Master Lister of Westbie, against whom she practised much mischief; for having cut off Thomas Lister Esquire, father to this gentleman now living, she revenged her self upon his son: who in short time received great loss in his goods and cattle by her means.

These things in time did beget suspicion, and at the Assizes and General Gaol delivery holden at the Castle of York in Lent last past, before my Lord Bromley, she was Indicted and Arraigned for the murder of a Child of one Dodg-sonnes, but by the favour and merciful consideration of the Jury thereof acquitted.

But this favour and mercy was no sooner extended towards her, and she set at liberty, But she began to practise the utter ruin and overthrow of the name and blood of this Gentleman.
And the better to execute her mischief and wicked intent, within four days after her deliverance out of the Castle at York, went to the great Assembly of Witches at Malking-Tower upon Good-friday last: to pray aide and help, for the murder of Master Lister, in respect he had prosecuted against her at the same Assizes.

Which it pleased God in his mercy to discover, and in the end, howsoever he had blinded her, as he did the King of Egypt and his Instruments, for the brighter evidence of his own powerful glory; Yet by a Judicial course and trial of the Law, cut her off, and so delivered his people from the danger of her Devilish and wicked practises: which you shall hear against her, at her Arraignment and Trial, which I shall now set forth to you in order as it was performed, with the wonderful signs and tokens of GOD, to satisfy the Jury to find her guilty of this bloody murder, committed four years since.

Indictment.
THis Jennet Preston being Prisoner in the Castle at York, and indicted, for that she feloniously had practised, used, and exercised diverse wicked and devilish Arts, called Witchcrafts, Enchantments, Charms, and Sorceries, in and upon one Thomas Lister of Westby in Craven, in the County of York Esquire, and by force of the same Witchcraft feloniously the said Thomas Lister had killed, Country Pacem &c. being at the Bar, was arraigned.

To this Indictment upon her Arraignment, she pleaded not guilty, and for the Trial of her life put her self upon GOD and her Country.

Whereupon my Lord Altham commanded Master Sheriff of the County of York, in open Court to return a Jury of sufficient Gentlemen of understanding, to posse between our Sovereign Lord the Kings Majesty and her, and others the Prisoners, upon their lives and deaths; who were afterwards sworn, according to the form and order of the Court, the prisoner being admitted to her lawful challenge.

Which being done, and the Prisoner at the Bar to receive her Trial, Master Heyber, one of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the same County, having taken great pains in the proceedings against her; and being best instructed of any man of all the particular points of Evidence against her, humbly prayed, the witnesses hereafter following might be examined against her, and the several Examinations, taken before Master Novel, and certified, might openly bee published against her; which hereafter follow in order, viz.

The Evidence for the Kings Majesty Against JENNET PRESTON, Prisoner at the Bar.
HEreupon were diverse Examinations taken and read openly against her, to induce and satisfy the Gentlemen of the Jury of Life and Death, to find she was a Witch; and many other circumstances for the death of M. Lister. In the end Anne Robinson and others were both examined, who upon their Oaths declared against her, That M. Lister lying in great extremity, upon his death-bedde, cried out unto them that stood about him; that Jennet Preston was in the house, look where she is, take hold of her: for Gods sake shut the doors, and take her, she cannot escape away. Look about for her, and lay hold on her, for she is in the house: and so cried very often in his great pains, to them that came to visit him during his sickness.


Anne Robinson, and Thomas Lister
Being examined further, they both gave this in evidence against her, That when Master Lister lay upon his death-bedde, he cried out in great extremity; Jennet Preston lies heavy upon me, Prestons wife lies heavy upon me; help me, help me: and so departed, crying out against her.

These, with many other witnesses, were further examined, and deposed, That Jennet Preston, the Prisoner at the Bar, being brought to M. Lister after he was dead, & laid out to be wound up in his winding-sheet, the said Jennet Preston coming to touch the dead corpse, they bled fresh blood presently, in the presence of all that were there present: Which hath ever been held a great argument to induce a Jury to hold him guilty that shall be accused of Murder, and hath seldom, or never, failed in the Trial.
But these were not alone: for this wicked and bloud-thirstie Witch was no sooner delivered at the Assizes holden at York in Lent last past, being indicted, arraigned, and by the favour and mercy of the Jury found not guilty, for the murder of a Child by Witch-craft: but upon the Friday following, being Good-Friday, she rode in hast to the great meeting at Malking-Tower, and there prayed aide for the murder of M. Thomas Lister: as at large shall appear, by the several Examinations hereafter following; sent to these Assizes from Master Novel and other his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster, to be given in evidence against her, upon her Trial, viz.

The Examination and Evidence of IAMES DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, Labourer, taken at the house of IAMES WILSEY, of the Forest of Pendle in the County of Lancaster, the seven and twentieth day of April, Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, &c. Decimo ac Scotiae quadragesimo quinto. Before ROGER NOVVEL, and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of the Peace within the County of Lancaster, viz.
THis Examinate saith, That upon Good-Friday last about twelve of the clock in the day-time, there dined in this Examinates said mothers house a number of persons, whereof three were men, with this Examinate, and the rest women: and that they met there for these three causes following (as this Examinates said mother told this Examinate): First was for the naming of the Spirit, which Alison Device, now Prisoner at Lancaster, had, but did not name him, because she was not there. The second cause was for the delivery of his said Grand-mother, this Examinates said sister Alison, the said Anne Chattox, and her daughter Redferne: Killing the Jailer at Lancaster; and before the next Assizes to blow up the Castle there; to that end the aforesaid Prisoners might by that means make an escape and get away. All which this Examinate then heard them confer of. And the third cause was, for that there was a woman dwelling in Gisburne Parish, who came into this Examinates said Grand-mothers

house, who there came, and craved assistance of the rest of them that were then there, for the killing of Master Lister of Westby: because, as she then said, he had borne malice unto her, and had thought to have put her away at the last Assizes at York; but could not. And then this Examinat heard the said woman say, that her power was not strong enough to doe it her self, being now less then before-time it had been.
And he also further saith, That the said Prestons wife had a Spirit with her like unto a white Foal, with a blacke-spot in the forehead. And further, this Examinat saith, That since the said meeting, as aforesaid, this Examinate hath been brought to the wife of one Preston in Gisburne Parish aforesaid, by Henry Hargreiues of Goldshey to see whether she was the woman that came amongst the said Witches, on the said last Good-Friday, to crave their aide and assistance for the killing of the said Master Lister: and having had full view of her; he this Examinate confesses, That she was the selfsame woman which came amongst the said Witches on the said last Good-Friday, for their aide for the killing of the said Master Lister; and that brought the Spirit with her, in the shape of a White Foal, as aforesaid.

And this Examinate further saith, That all the said Witches went out of the said house in their own shapes and likenesses, and they all, by that they were forth of the doors, were gotten on horse-backe like unto Foales, some of one colour, some of another, and Prestons wife was the last; and when she got on horseback, they all presently vanished out of this Examinats sight: and before their said parting away, they all appointed to meet at the said Prestons wives house that

day twelue-month; at which time the said Prestons wife promised to make them a great feast; and if they had occasion to meet in the mean time, then should warning bee given that they all should meet upon Romles-Moore. And this Examinate further saith, That at the said feast at Malking-Tower, this Examinat heard them all give their consents to put the said Master Thomas Lister of Westby to death: and after Master Lister should be made away by Witchcraft, then al the said Witches gave their consents to join altogether to hancke Master Leonard Lister, when he should come to dwell at the Sowgill, and so put him to death.

The Examination of HENRIE HARGREIVES of Goldshey-booth, in the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster Yeoman, taken the fifth day of May, Anno Reg. Regis IACOBI Anglia, &c. Decimo, ac Scociae quadragesimo quinto. Before ROGER NOVVEL, NICHOLAS BANISTER, and ROBERT HOLDEN, Esquires; three of his Majesties Justices of Peace within the said County.
THis Examinat upon his oath saith, That Anne Whittle, alias Chattox, confessed unto him, that she knows one Prestons wife near Gisburne, and that the said Prestons wife should have been at the said feast, upon the said Good-Friday, and that she was an ill woman, and had done Master Lister of Westby great hurt.


The Examination of ELIZABETH DEVICE, mother of IAMES DEVICE, taken before ROGER NOVVELL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, the day and year aforesaid, viz.
THe said Elizabeth Device upon her Examination confesses. That upon Good-Friday last, there dined at this Examinats house, which she hath said are Witches, and doth verily think them to be Witches; and their names are those whom Iames Device hath formerly spoken of to be there.

She also confesses in all things touching the killing of Master Lister of Westby, as the said Iames Device hath before confessed.

And the said Elizabeth Device also further saith, That at the said meeting at Malking-Tower, as aforesaid, the said Katherine Hewyt and Iohn Bulcock, with all the rest then there, gave their consents, with the said Prestons wife, for the killing of the said Master Lister. And for the killing of the said Master Leonard Lister, she this Examinate saith in all things, as the said Iames Device hath before confessed in his Examination.


The Examination of JENNET DEVICE, daughter of ELIZABETH late wife of IOHN DEVICE, of the Forest of Pendle, in the County of Lancaster, about the age of nine years or thereabouts, taken the day and year aboue-said: Before ROGER NOVVEL and NICHOLAS BANISTER, Esquires, two of his Majesties Justices of Peace in the County of Lancaster.
THe said Examinate upon her Examination saith, that upon Good-friday last there was about twenty persons, whereof only two were men, to this Examinats remembrance, at her said Grand???mothers house, called Malking-Tower aforesaid, about twelve of the clock: all which persons, this Examinates said mother told her were Witches, and that she knows the names of divers of the said Witches.

AFter all these Examinations, Confessions, and Evidence, delivered in open Court against her, His Lordship commanded the Jury to observe the particular circumstances; first, Master Lister in his great extremity, to complain he saw her, and requested them that were by him to lay hold on her.
After he cried out she lay heavy upon him, even at the time of his death.

But the Conclusion is of more consequence then all the rest, that Jennet Preston being brought to the dead corps, they bled freshly, And after her deliverance in Lent, it is proved she rode upon a white Foal, and was present in the great assembly at Malkin Tower with the Witches, to entreat and pray for aide of them, to kill Master Lister, now living, for that he had prosequuted against her.

And against these people you may not expect such direct evidence, since all their works are the works of darkness, no witnesses are present to accuse them, therefore I pray God direct your consciences.

After the Gentlemen of the Jury of Life and Death had spent the most part of the day, in consideration of the evidence against her, they returned into the Court and delivered up their Verdict of Life and Death. ???



The ??erdict of Life and Death.
WHo found Jennet Preston guilty of the felony and murder by Witch-craft of Thomas Lister, Esquire; contained in the Indictment against her, &c.

Afterwards, according to the course and order of the Laws, his Lordship pronounced Judgment against her to bee hanged for her offence. And so the Court arose.

HEre was the wonderful discovery of this Jennet Preston, who for so many years had lived at Gisborne in Craven, near Master Lister: one thing more I shall add to all these particular Examinations, and evidence of witnesses, which I saw, and was present in the Court at Lancaster, when it was done at the Assizes holden in August following.

My Lord Bromley being very suspicious of the accusation of Jennet Device, the little Wench, commanded her to look upon the Prisoners that were present, and declare which of them were present at Malkin Tower, at the great assembly of Witches upon Good-Friday last: she looked upon and took many by the hands, and accused them to be there, and when she had accused all that were there present, she told his Lordship there was a Woman that came out of Craven that was


amongst the Witches at that Feast, but she saw her not amongst the Prisoners at the Bar.
What a singular note was this of a Child, amongst many to miss her, that before that time was hanged for her offence, which she would never confess or declare at her death? here was present old Preston her husband, who then cried out and went away: being fully satisfied his wife had Justice, and was worthy of death.

To conclude then this present discourse, I heartily desire you, my loving Friends and Countrymen, for whose particular instructions this is added to the former of the wonderful discovery of Witches in the County of Lancaster: And for whose particular satisfaction this is published; Awake in time, and suffer not your selves to be thus assaulted.

Consider how barbarously this Gentleman hath been dealt withal; and especially you that hereafter shall posse upon any Juries of Life and Death, let not your conniuence, or rather foolish pity, spare such as these, to exequute farther mischief.

Remember that she was no sooner set at liberty, but she plotted the ruin and overthrow of this Gentleman, and his whole Family.

Expect not, as this reverend and learned Judge saith, such apparent proof against them, as against others, since all their works, are the works of darkness: and unless it please Almighty God to raise witnesses to accuse them, who is able to condemn them?

Forget not the blood that cries out unto God for revenge, bring it not upon your own heads.

Neither doe I urge this any farther, then with this, that I would always entreat you to remember, that it is

as great a crime (as Solomon saith, Prove. 17) to condemn the innocent, as to let the guilty escape free.
Look not upon things strangely alleged, but judiciously consider what is justly proved against them.

And that as well all you that were witnesses, present at the Arraignment and Trial of her, as all other strangers, to whom this Discourse shall come, may take example by this Gentleman to prosecute these hellish Furies to their end: labour to root them out of the Commonwealth, for the common good of your Country. The greatest mercy extended to them, is soon forgotten.

GOD grant vs the long and prosperous continuance of these Honourable and Reverend Judges, under whose Government we live in these North parts: for we may say, that GOD Almighty hath singled them out, and set them on his Seat, for the defence of Justice.

And for this great deliverance, let vs all pray to GOD Almighty, that the memory of these worthy Judges may bee blessed to all Posterities.

    FINIS.

[1] Evening.
[2] Her own examination
[3] Her Spirit.
[4] Executed at York the last Assizes.
[5] Dandy.
[6] Anne Redferne the Witch.
[7] Alice Nutter the Prisoner.