A Rehearsal both strange and true, of heinous and horrible acts committed by Elizabeth Stile, Alias Rockingham, Mother Dutten, Mother Deuil, Mother Margaret, Four notorious Witches, apprehended at winsore in the Countie of Barks. and at Abbington arraigned, condemned, and executed, on the 26 day of Februarie last Anno. 1579.

Imprinted at London for Edward White at the little North-doore of Paules, at the sign of the Gun, and are there to be sold.



The Reader
AMong the punishments which the Lord GOD hath laid upon vs, for the manifest impiety and careless contempt of his word, abounding in these our desperate days, the swarms of Witches, and Enchanters are not the last nor the least. For that old Serpent Satan, suffered to be the scourge for our sins, hath of late years, greatly multiplied the brood of them, and much increased their malice. Which practice, he hath the more easily performed for that wholesome remedies, provided for the curing of such cankers,

are either never awhit, or not rightly applied: For albeit the Justicer bee severe in executing of the Laws in that behalf, yet such is the foolish pity, or slackness, or doth of the multitude and under officers that they most commonly are winked at, and so escape unpunished, to the dishonour of God, and imminent danger on his Majesties liege people. Nay the fondness and ignorance of many is such, that they succour those Devilish Imps, have recourse to them for the health of themselves or others, and for things lost, calling them by the honorable name of wise women. Wherein they know not what honour they doe to the devil. For it is Satan, that doeth all that plaugeth with sickness, that mayneth,

Murdered, and Robbed, and at his lust restores. The Witch bears the name, but the devil dispatches the deeds, without him the Witch can contrive no mischief. He without the Witch can work treason to much, to oft, and to soon. If then by the law of the Lord of life, Witches, and Enchanters, are accounted unworthy to live. If by the law of this Land, they are to be done to death, as Traitors to their Prince, and felons in respect of her highness subjects, whosoever thou be, beware of aiding them, go not with Sale the reprobate to ask coūsaile of them, neither for Christianity's sake, seeme to be more slack in a good purpose, then Cicero the Ethnique, who plainely advises that Witches Poisoners. &c. are to be
rather shut up in prison, and tied with fetters, then moved to amend with counsel, and persuasions, only afterwards suffered to escape whereby they may renew their malicious, and treasonable drifts.


1579. Ianuary the 28. daie.

The true examination and Confession of Elizabeth Stile, alias Rockyngham uttered at the Gaol of Readyng, in the Countie of Barke▪ immediately after his apprehension in the presence of the persons herafter mentioned.
ELiazbeth Stile ali. Rockingham, late of Windesore widow, of the age of lxv. years, or there about being apprehended at Windsore afore said, and brought personally before the right worshipful Sir Henry Neuell knight being by him examined, and found by manifest and undeniable proofs of her honest neighbors to be a lewd, malicious, and hurtful woman to the people and inhabitants thereaboutes, was thereupon committed to the common Gaol of Reading, there to remain until the next great

Assizes, there to bee holden that his offence might be more straightly sifted, and she the offender to receive the guerdon due for his demerites. Whither when she was come, and moved by the Gailer there named Thomas Rowe to turne his self to God, from whome she had notoriously fallen, and mildely to beare the punishment belonging to his deeds passed, and there withal urged in sign of his repentance, to confesse his former follies and facts, she seemed to have some remorse in conscience, and desired to have some talke with the said Thomas Rowe. To whome with one Iohn knight the Counstable Ihon Griffeth an Inholder, and one William Printall being all four present she confessed as follows.

And first concerning those persons that practice the damnable art of Witchcraft, Sorcery, or Enchantment of her own certain knowledge, and voluntary motion, she uttered to this effect ensuing.
IN Primis that one father Rosimonde, dwelling in Farneham Parishe, being a widower, and also a daughter of his, are both Witches or Enchanters, which Rosimōd she saith hath and can transform hymself by Devilish means, into the shape and likeness of any beast whatsoever he will.

2 Item, that one Mother Dutten dwelling


within one Hoskins in Cleworthe Parishe, can tell every ones message, as soon as she sees them approach nere to the place of his abroade, and further, she keepeth a Spirit or Fiend in the likeness of a Toad, and faded the same Fiend liyng in a border of greene Herbs, within her Garden, with blood which she causeth to issue from her own flank.

3 Item, that one Mother Devil, dwelling nigh the Pond in Windesore aforesaid, being a very poor woman, hath a Spirit in the shape of a Black Cat, and calls it Gill whereby she is aided in her Witchcraft, and she daily feeds it with Milk, mingled with her own blood.


4 Item, that one Mother Margaret dwelling in the Alms house at Windesore, goeth with twoo Crouches, dooeth feed a Kitlyng or Fiend by her named Ginnie, with crumbs of bread and her own blood.
5 Item, the said Elizabeth Stile, alias Rockyngham, of her self confesses that she the same Elizabeth, until the time of her apprehension, kept a Rat, being in very deed a

wicked Spirit, naming it Philip, and that she fed the same Rat with blood, issuing from her right hand wrist, the marks whereof evidently remain, and also that she gave her right side to the Devil, and so did the residue of the Witches before named.

And thus far for the touching the persons afore mentioned in general, now rests her declaration of their detestable drifts, and devises in particular.
6 Furthermore, she confesses that when she was apprehended, Mother Margaret came to her and gave her money, charging her in any wise not to detect their secretes, which if she this prisoner did, the said Mother Margarete threatened that she should be hardly entreated.

7 And moreover, she says that Father Rosimōd, with his daughter, mother Dutten, mother Deuell, Mother Margaret, and her self the said Elizabeth Rockingham, did accustom to meet within the backeside of Master Dodges in the Pittes there, and did in that place conclude upon heinous, and villainous practises, such as by them, or any of them before had bin devised, or determined.

8 Also she says, and confesses that they all purposed and agreed, by their Sorceries, and Enchantment's, to dispatch privily one Lanckforde a Fermour, dwelling in Windesore by the Thames side, and that they murdered
him accordingly.
9 They also by their devilish art, killed one Master Gallis, who in times paste, had been Maior of Windesore.

10 The like they practised against one of the said Lanckfordes maids, whom by the mischevious means above expressed they bereft of life.

11 Likewise a Butcher named Switcher, escaped not their treachery, but was by their Witchcraft brought to his grave.

12 Another Butcher named Mastlyn, was by them handled in such sort, that he consumed away.

13. The manner of their Enchantment, whereby four of the persons afore named were murdered was thus: Mother Dutten made four pictures of Redde Waxe, about a span long, and three or four fingers broad for Lanckforde, for his Maid, for Master Gallis, and for Switcher, and the said Mother Dutten, by their counsel and consent,

did stick an Hawthorn prick, against the left sides of the breasts of the Images, directly there where they thought the hearts of the persons to bee sette, whom the same pictures did represent, and thereupon within shorte space, the said four persons, being suddenly taken, died.
14 As for Mastlyn the fifth man, she confesses that he was bewitched, but howe or whether he dyed or no she utters not.

15 Further the same Elizabeth says, that her self did kill one Saddocke with a clap on the shoulder, for not keeping his promise for an old Cloke, to make her a Saffegarde, who presently went home and died.

16 Further she says, that she and every of them▪ did suer speak one Humfrey Ho•ie and his wife, and one Richarde Milles, and one Ihon Mathynglise, that they lay sick in a strange order a long time, but they were recovered again.

17 Further she says, that mother Deuill did over speak one Wylliam Foster a Fisher,

and one Willies wife a Baker.
18 Further she says, that mother Dutten did gave one Picture, but she knows not whether it was of a manna, or of a woman, and the man that had it of her, she thinks to be dead, but she knows not his name.

19 Further she says, that one George Whittyng, servant to Matthewe Glouer of Eaton, had one Picture of her self for one Foster, for that the said George and Foster fell out at variance, and the Picture was made in mother Dottens house, and that mother Dutten, Mother Deuell, and her self were at the making, and that Mother Deuell did say too her Buime, or evil Spirit, Plague him, and spare him not, and she did thrust a Hawthorn prick against the heart of him, and so he lay at the point of death a long time, but Mother Dutten recovered him again.

20 And in the end, they killed a Cow of his by their Witchcraft.

21 And further she says, that they and every of them, if any had angered them, they would go to their Spirits and say, such a one hath angered me, go do them this mischief, and for their hire, would gave them a drop of their own blood, and presently the party was plagued by some lamentable casualty.
22 Elizabeth Stile also confesses, that she her self hath gone to old Windsor, to the bed makers there, to beg a mess of Milk, which she could not have, for that the maid was then Milking, but her Rat had provided for her both Milk and Cream, against her coming home.

23 Elizabeth Stile touched with more remorse says, that Mother Dutten, & Mother Deuell, were her first enticers to folly, and that she and every of them, did meet sometimes in master Dodges Pittes, and sometime about a eleven of the Clock in the night at the Pound, and that Mother Dutten, and Mother Deuell did persuade her, to do as they had done, in forsaking God and his works, and giving her self to the Devil.

24 Elizabeth Stile confesses, her self often times to have gon to Father Rosimond house

where she found him sittyng in a Wood, not farre from thence, under the body of a Tree, sometimes in the shape of an Ape, and otherwhiles like an Horse. She also confesses her self to have turned a childes hand in Windesor clean backwards, which was returned to the right place by Mother Dutten.
25 Further she says, that she will stand unto her death, to all and every Article before rehearsed: and that father Rosimond can transform him self into the likeness of an Ape, or a Horse, and that he can help any manna so bewitched to his health again, as well as to bewitch.

26 Further she says, that mother Seidre dwelling in the Alms house, was the mistress Witch of all the rest, and she is now dead.

27 Further she says, that if she had bin so disposed, four or five, or more of the best men in Windsor, should not have brought her to the gaol, but that she came of her own accord, and by the way as she came with Ihō Brome who brought her to the Gaol, her Bunne or Familiar came to her in the likeness of a black Cat, and would have had her away, but she banished him, hoping for favour.
Memorandum, that besides the examination, and confession aforesaid, there was given in evidence, viva voce, at the Arraignment of the said Witches, one special matter by an Ostler of Windsore, who affirmed upon his oath that the said Mother Stile using to come to his Master's house, had often times relief given her by him. And on a time not long since, she coming to his Master's house, when there was little left to be given her, for that she came somewhat late, yet he giving her also somewhat at that time, she therewith not contented went her ways in some anger, and as it seemed offended with the said Ostler, for that she had no better Alms, and by the sequel, so it appeared. For not long after, he had a great ache in his limbs, that he was not able to take any rest, nor to doe any labour, and having sought many means for remedy thereof, could find none, at the last he went to a Wiseman, named Father Rosimonde, alias Osborne, who told him that he was bewitched, and that there was many ill women in Windsore, and asked him whom he did mistrust, and the said Osteler answered one Mother Stile, one of the

Witches aforesaid: well said the Wiseman, if you can meet her, and all to scratch her, so that you draw blood of her, you shall presently mend. And the said Osteler upon his oath declared, that he watching her on a time, did all too scratch her by the face, that he made the blood come after, & presently his pain went away, so that he hath bin no more grieved since.
Moreover, on a time a man Son of Windsor, coming to fetch water at a well which was by the door of the said Mother Stile, and by chance hurling a stone upon her house, she was there withal much grieved and said, she would bee even with him, and took his Pitcher which he had brought from him: the boy going home wards, happened to meet with his father, and told him how that Mother Stile had taken away his Pitcher from him, well said his Father, you have done her some unhappiness, come on with me, and I will go speak with her. And so the boy going with his Father towards her house, did suddenly cry out: O my hand my hand, his father there withal looking back, and seeing his Sons hand to turn, and wend backwards, laid hold thereupon, but he was not able to staye the turning thereof,

besides a neighbour of his being in his company at that time, did also lay hold thereon, and notwithstanding both their strengths, the childes hand did turn backwards, and the palm thereof did stand, where the back did, to the grievous torment of the said child, and vexation of his Father: The which hand was turned again to his right place, either by the said father Rosimond, or the said Mother Deuell.
Also this is not to be forgotten, that the said Mother Stile, being at the time of her apprehensions so well in health of body and limbs, that she was able, and did go on foot, from Windsor unto Readyng unto the Gaol, which are twelve miles distant. Shortly after that she had made the aforesaid confession, the other Witches were apprehended, and were brought to the said Gaol, the said Mother Deuill did so bewitch her and others (as she confessed unto the Jailer) with her Enchantments, that the use of all her limbs and senses, were taken quite from her, and her Toes did rot of her feet, and she was laid upon a Barrow, as a most ugly creature to behold, and so brought before the Judges, at such time as she was arraigned.

    Finis.